Now, you had in 1998, in the fall, when Long-Term Capital Management got in trouble, you had 
a seize up of the credit markets. 
It wasn’t an orchestrated by the Fed-type contraction. You simply had people panicked about 
even the most — even the safest of instruments and credit spreads doing things that they’d 
never done before. 
And that’s rather an interesting example, because that was not a hundred years ago. It was less 
than ten years ago. You had all kinds of people with high IQs in Wall Street. You had all kinds of 
people with cash available. 
And you had some really extraordinary things happen in credit markets simply because people 
panicked and they felt other people were going to panic. And you get these second- and third-
degree type reactions in markets. 
We will see that sort of thing again. It won’t be the same but, you know, as Mark Twain said, 
history doesn’t repeat itself but it rhymes. And we will have something that rhymes with 1998. 
10. Munger reminds people “too much of John Adams” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 6. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. My name is Andrew Paullin (PH), a former Michigander now from 
Woburn, Massachusetts. 
My question is for Charlie, though Warren, please add your thoughts as well. 
Charlie, you were quoted in “Poor Charlie’s Almanack” as saying, quote, “Ben Franklin was a 
very good ambassador and whatever was wrong with him from John Adams’ point of view 
probably helped him with the French,” end quote. 
If you are willing, I’m curious to hear your additional thoughts regarding John Adams and his 
wife, Abigail Adams. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, of course, they were wonderful people, both of them. And — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Did you know them personally, Charlie? (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. No. 
But if you wanted to have a really jolly evening, I would have taken Franklin every time. And the 
French love Franklin. 
I think I remind many people too much of John Adams and too little of Ben Franklin. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: He does pretty well in respect to Ben Franklin, too 
11. Corporate profits can’t stay at record highs 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go to number 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name Takashi Ito (PH) from Japan. 
In addition to the global excess liquidity, corporate profits are very high compared to the share 
of labor. Does that make it extra challenging for you to find investment opportunities? Thank 
you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes, corporate profits in the United States are — except for just a very few 
years — are record, in terms of GDP. 
I’ve been amazed that after being in a range between 4 and 6 percent of GDP, they have 
jumped upward. And — (coughs) — you would not think this would be sustainable over time. 
Excuse me just one second. Charlie, want to talk for a second? (Laughter) 
You’ve just heard him on the subject. 
But corporate profits, when they get up to 8 percent plus of GDP, you know, that is very high. 
And so far it has caused no reaction. 
One reaction could be higher corporate taxes. You have lots and lots of businesses in this 
country earning 20 or 25 percent on tangible equity in a world where long-term bond rates are 
4 3/4 percent — government bond rates. 
That’s extraordinary. If you’d read an economics book 40 years ago and it talked about that 
kind of a situation persisting, you wouldn’t have found a book like that. 
I mean, that does not make sense under pure economic theory, but it’s been occurring for 
some period of time and, as a matter of fact, it’s gotten more extreme. 
Corporate profits continue to rise as a percentage of GDP. That means somebody else’s share of 
GDP is going down. 
And you’re quite correct that the labor component of GDP has actually fallen fairly significantly. 
Whether that becomes a political issue — maybe in the next campaign — whether it becomes 
something that Congress does something about — Congress has the power to change that ratio 
very quickly. 
Corporate tax rates not that long ago were 52 percent and now they’re 35 percent and a whole 
lot of companies get by with paying 20 percent or less. 
So I would say that, at the moment, corporate America is kind of living in the best of all worlds, 
and history has shown that those conditions don’t persist indefinitely. 
What brings it to an end, when it happens, I don’t know. But I would not expect corporate 
profits to be eight-and-a-fraction percent of GDP, on average, in the future. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. Of course, a lot of the profits are not in the manufacturing sector or 
the retailing sector, either. A lot of them are in this financial sector. 
And so we’ve had a huge flow of profit to banks and investment banks and investment 
management groups of all kinds, including various kinds of private equity. 
And that has, I think, no precedent. I don’t think it’s ever been as extreme as it is now. Do you 
agree with that? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. And Charlie and I would have said 20 years ago — and we’ve done 
things in banking from time to time, including owning a bank. 
But if you had said to us, in a world of 4 3/4 percent long-term governments, will one major 
bank after another be earning more than 20 percent on tangible equity, dealing in what is 
basically a commodity — money — we would have said that that condition just wouldn’t 
persist. 
Now, part of that is because the banks are geared up more. So if you earn 1 1/2 percent on 
deposits, you know, and you have — or 1 1/2 percent on assets — and you have assets of 15 
times equity, you’re going to be earning 22 1/2 percent on equity. And by gearing up more, it 
does improve the return on equity. 
But you still would think that would be self-neutralizing. You’d think that after one guy did it, 
another guy would do it, and then instead of earning 1 1/2 percent on assets, you’d earn, you 
know, 9/10 of a percent or 1 percent on assets, but it hasn’t happened. It’s gone on for a long 
time. 
And, you know, we are living — I’d have to look at a chart on it, but there may have been a year 
or two post-World War II, but I don’t think that — I would bet there haven’t been more than 
two or three years in the last 75 when corporate profits, as a percentage of GDP, have been this 
high. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Some of this has come from consumer credit, which I think has been pushed 
to extremes that we’ve never before seen in the history of this country. 
Some other countries that pushed consumer credit very hard had enormous collapses. Korea 
had one, for instance, that caused chaos for, what, two or three years? Maybe longer. So I don’t 
think this is a time to just swing for the fences. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And the chaos in 1997 and 1998 when the IMF stepped in, I mean, it was 
bad in Korea for a while. 
It produced some of the most ridiculously low stock prices that I’ve ever seen in my life. 
In fact, I mean, you could go back to 1932 in this country and you wouldn’t have seen things 
any cheaper. And in the meantime, the companies rebuilt their balance sheets and their 
earning power. 
So things do turn around in financial markets. You will — if you’re young enough, you will see 
everything and then some. 
I mention in the annual report, in looking for an investment manager to succeed me, that we 
care enormously about finding somebody who’s not cognizant of everything risky that’s already 
happened, but that also can envision things that have not yet been experienced. 
That’s our job in the insurance business, and it’s our job in the investment business. 
And there are a lot of people that just don’t seem to — they’re not — they’re very smart, but 
they just — they’re just not wired to think about troubles that they haven’t actually witnessed 
before. 
But, you know, that’s the problem Noah had. You know, the first 40 days, it was tough sledding 
for Noah, but he got revenge eventually. 
12. We welcome short-sellers betting against us 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go to number 8. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. My name is Brian Bowalk (PH), Fremont, Nebraska. 
With the growing number of fail-to-deliver trades happening in our stock markets, including 
investors’ cash accounts, Roth IRAs, and other retirement accounts, it seems like the problem is 
getting worse. 
With some companies being on the Regulation SHO list for hundreds of days, what can be done 
to make Wall Street deliver stock that they have sold but never delivered? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. The so-called fail to deliver and naked shorting, I think is the question. 
I don’t know exact — I’ve never been in a position where I’ve asked a broker from whom I 
bought stock to give me the certificate and have them decline it for any period of time. 
I would think that you might have some action against them. But I’ve never — I do not see the 
problem at all with people shorting stocks. 
I mean, I would welcome people shorting Berkshire Hathaway. I mean, it — if you own stock, 
and they need to borrow from you, you can get some extra income from your stock. And the 
one sure buyer of your stock eventually is somebody who shorted it. I mean, that guy is going 
to buy it someday. 
And I have no problem with shorts. If there’s some kind of a game that’s played — and I’ve read 
about it — I’ve never seen it happen to anything that we’ve owned. 
Like I say, if anybody wants to naked short Berkshire Hathaway, they can do it until the cows 
come home, and we’ll be happy to. We’ll have a special meeting for them. 
But — and I would say this: the shorts generally have the tougher time of it in this world. I 
mean, there are more people bowling stocks for phony reasons than there are burying stocks 
for phony reasons. 
So I do not see shorts as any great threat to the world. If enough people shorted Berkshire 
stock, they would have to borrow it and they would pay you to borrow your stock and that’s 
found money. 
We did that on USG. When USG got hammered after they went into bankruptcy — or maybe 
just before — one large brokerage firm came to us and they wanted us to lend them millions of 
shares and they paid us a lot of money. 
And we happily lent them the stock. We wished they borrowed more. In fact, we insisted that 
they borrow it for a given length of time just so that we could collect a large premium. 
And I don’t know how many — I’d have to look it up but — I don’t know whether it’s in the 
hundred thousands or, maybe, low millions, but we were better off. 
And they didn’t do too well shorting USG at $4 a share either, but it was immaterial to us. 
So I do not regard — I do not regard shorts as — it’s a tough way to make a living. 
It’s very easy to spot phony stocks and promoted stocks, but it’s very hard to tell when that will 
turn around. 
And somebody that’s promoted a stock to five times what it’s worth, may very well promote it 
to ten times what it’s worth, and if you’re short, that can get very painful. 
Charlie, do you have any thoughts on shorting? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, not on shorting. But those delays in delivering sometimes reflect a 
tremendous slop in the clearance process, and it is not good for a civilization to have huge slop 
in the clearance processes for its security trades. 
That would be sort of like having a lot of slop in the management of your atomic power plants. 
It’s not a good idea to have slop that causes a lot of financial exposure that people are ignoring. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, reach back into your law practice. If I buy a thousand shares of 
General Motors, and my broker doesn’t deliver it to me, and I ask him to deliver it and he 
doesn’t deliver it to me after a week or two weeks or three weeks, what’s the situation? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, if you’re a private customer, you may wait a while. And a lot of the 
other trades — the clearance systems do cause people to put up collateral and so on. 
But a lot of — take derivative trading. There’s a lot of slop in derivative trading. And the 
clearance problem would be awful if a lot of people wanted to do something at once. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But if I demand delivery after three weeks, can I walk into court and say I 
want my stock, I’ve given you the money? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think there’s any court that can issue you a stock certificate just 
because you want it. 
No, the clearance system is failing you. Why, you can scream a lot, and you may have some 
ultimate remedy, but there’s — 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’ll get somebody else to represent me. (Laughter) 
13. “Gambling is a tax on ignorance” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 9. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, hello. My name is Johann Fortenberg (PH) from Hanover, Germany. 
Do you think gambling companies will have a great future? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: What kind of company? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Gambling companies. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Gambling companies. Gambling companies will have a terrific future, if 
they’re legal. 
You know, which ones or anything, I don’t know anything about that. 
But the desire of people to gamble and to gamble in stocks, incidentally, too. Day trading, I 
would say, very often was — came very close to gambling as defined —. 
But people like to gamble, you know. I mean, it’s a — if the Super Bowl is on — better yet, if a 
terribly boring football game is on but you don’t have anything to do, and you’re sitting there 
with somebody else, you’re probably going to enjoy the game more if you bet a few bucks on it 
one way or the other. 
As you know, I mean, we insure hurricanes, so I watch the Weather Channel. But that’s a — 
(Laughter) 
It can be exciting. (Laughter) 
But people — the human propensity to gamble is huge. Now, when it was legalized only in — 
pretty much in Nevada — you had to go to some distance, or break some laws, to do any 
serious gambling. 
But as the states learned to — you know, what a great source of revenue it was, they gradually 
made it easier and easier and easier for people to gamble. 
And, believe me, the easier it’s made, the more people will gamble. 
I mean, when I was — my children are here, and 40 years ago I bought a slot machine and I put 
it up on our third floor, and I could give me kids any allowance they wanted as long as it was in 
dimes. I mean, I had it all back by nightfall. (Laughter) 
I thought it would be a good lesson for them. Now they weren’t going to Las Vegas to do it, but 
believe me when it was on the third floor, they could find it, you know. 
And my payout ratio was terrible, too, but that’s the kind of father I was. (Laughter) 
The — but gambling, you know, people are always going to want to do it. 
And for that reason, I particularly think that access — you know, in terms of friendly gambling 
or anything like that, I’m not a prude about it, but I do think that to quite an extent, gambling is 
a tax on ignorance. 
I mean, if you want to tax the ignorant, people who will do things with the odds against them, 
you know, you just put it in and guys like me don’t have to pay taxes. 
I really don’t — I find that — I find it kind of socially revolting when a government preys on the 
weaknesses of its citizenry rather than acts to serve them. And, believe me, when a 
government — (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: When a government makes it easy for people to take their Social Security 
checks and start pulling handles or participating in lotteries or whatever it may be, it’s a pretty 
cynical act. 
It works. It’s a pretty cynical act. And it relieves taxes on those, you know, who don’t fall for 
those or who don’t — who aren’t dreaming about having a car instead of actually having a car 
or dreaming about a color TV instead of having one. 
So it’s not government at its best, and I think other things flow from that over time, too. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You know, I would argue that the gambling casinos use clever psychological 
tricks to cause people to hurt themselves. 
There is undoubtedly a lot of harmless amusement in the casinos, but there’s also a lot of 
grievous injury that is deliberately caused by the casinos. 
It’s a dirty business, and I don’t think you’ll find a casino soon in Berkshire Hathaway. 
(Applause) 
14. How to be a better investor 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 10, please. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. I’m Thomas Gamay (PH) from San Francisco. I’m 17-years-
old and this is my tenth consecutive annual meeting. (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: You must be a Ph.D. by now at least. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, I’m curious about what you think is the best 
way to become a better investor. 
Should I get an MBA? Get more work experience? Read more Charlie Munger almanacs or 
merely is it genetic and out of my hands? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think you should read everything you can. 
I can tell you in my own case, I think by the time I was — well, I know by the time I was ten — 
I’d read every book in the Omaha Public Library that had anything to do with investing, and 
many of them I’d read twice. 
So I don’t think there’s anything like reading, and not just as limited to investing at all. But 
you’ve just got to fill up your mind with various competing thoughts and sort them out as to 
what really makes sense over time. 
And then once you’ve done a lot of that, I think you have to jump in the water, because 
investing on paper and doing — you know, and investing with real money, you know, is like the 
difference between reading a romance novel and doing something else. (Laughter) 
There is nothing like actually having a little experience in investing. And you soon find out 
whether you like it. If you like it, if it turns you on, you know, you’re probably going to do well 
on it. 
And the earlier you start, the better, in terms of reading. But, you know, I read a book at age 19 
that formed my framework for thinking about investments ever since. 
I mean, what I’m doing today at 76 is running things through the same thought pattern that I 
got from a book I read when I was 19. 
And I read all the other books, too, but if you — and you have to read a lot of them to know 
which ones really do jump out at you and which ideas jump out at you over time. 
So I would say that read and then, on a small scale in a way that can’t hurt you financially, do 
some of it yourself. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, Sandy Gottesman, who is a Berkshire director, runs a large and 
successful investment operation, and you can tell what he thinks causes people to learn to be 
good investors by noticing his employment practices. 
When a young man comes to Sandy, he asks a very simple question, no matter how young the 
man is. He says, “What do you own and why do you own it?” And if you haven’t been interested 
enough in the subject to have that involvement already, why, he’d rather you go somewhere 
else. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It’s very — that whole idea that you own a business, you know, is vital 
to the investment process. 
If you were going to buy a farm, you’d say, I’m buying this 160-acre farm because I expect that 
the farm will produce 120 bushels an acre of corn or 45 bushels an acre of soybeans and I can 
buy — you know, you go through the whole process. 
It’d be a quantitative decision and it would be based on pretty solid stuff. It would not be based 
on, you know, what you saw on television that day. It would not be based on, you know, what 
your neighbor said to you or anything of the sort. 
It’s the same thing with stocks. I used to always recommend to my students that they take a 
yellow pad like this and if they’re buying a hundred shares of General Motors at 30 and General 
Motors has whatever it has out, 600 million shares or a little less, that they say, “I’m going to 
buy the General Motors company for $18 billion, and here’s why.” 
And if they can’t give a good essay on that subject, they’ve got no business buying 100 shares or 
ten shares or one share at $30 per share because they are not subjecting it to business tests. 
And to get in the habit of thinking that way, you know, Sandy would have followed it up with 
the questions, based on how you answered the first two questions, that made you defend 
exactly why you thought that business was cheap at the price at which you are buying it. And 
any other answer, you’d flunk. 
15. When you don’t need a huge margin of safety 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, I’m Marc Rabinov from Melbourne, 
Australia. 
I just wanted to ask you, how do you judge the right margin of safety to use when investing in 
various common stocks? 
For example, in a dominant, long-standing, stable business, would you demand a 10 percent 
margin of safety and, if so, how would you increase this in a weaker business? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We favor the businesses where we really think we know the answer. 
And, therefore, if a business gets to the point where we think the industry in which it operates, 
the competitive position or anything is so chancy that we can’t really come up with a figure, we 
don’t really try to compensate for that sort of thing by having some extra large margin of 
safety. 
We really want to try to go on to something that we understand better. So if we buy something 
like — See’s Candy as a business or Coca-Cola as a stock, we don’t think we need a huge margin 
of safety because we don’t think we’re going to be wrong about our assumptions in any 
material way. 
What we really want to do is buy a business that’s a great business, which means that business 
is going to earn a high return on capital employed for a very long period of time, and where we 
think the management will treat us right. 
We don’t have to mark those down a lot when we find those factors. We’d love to find them 
when they’re selling at 40 cents on the dollar but we will buy those as much closer to a dollar 
on the dollar. We don’t like to pay a dollar on the dollar, but we’ll pay something close. 
And if we really get to something — you know, when we see a great business, it’s like if you see 
some — somebody walk in the door, you don’t know whether they weigh 300 pounds or 325 
pounds. You still know they’re fat, right, you know? 
And so if we see something we know it’s fat, financially, we don’t worry about being precise. 
And if we can come in, in that particular example, at the equivalent of 270 pounds, we’ll feel 
good. 
But if we find something where the competitive aspects are — it’s just the nature of the 
business that you really can’t see out five or 10 or 20 years because that’s what investing is, is 
seeing out. 
You don’t get paid for what’s already happened. You only get paid for what’s going to happen in 
the future. The past is only useful to you in the extent to which it gives you insights into the 
future, and sometimes the past doesn’t give you any insights into the future. 
And in other cases, like the stable business that you postulated, it probably does give you a 
pretty good guideline as to what’s going to happen in the future, and you don’t need a huge 
margin of safety. 
You should have something that — you always should feel you’re getting a little more than 
what it’s worth, and there are times when we’ve been able to buy wonderful businesses at a 
quarter of what they’re worth, but we haven’t seen those — well, we saw it in Korea here 
recently — but you don’t see those sort of things very often. 
And does that mean you should sit around and hope they come back for 10 or — you know, 
wait 10 or 15 years? That’s not the way we do it. If we can buy good businesses at a reasonable 
valuation, we’re going to keep doing it. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. You’re — that margin of safety concept boils down to getting more 
value than you’re paying. And that value can exist in a lot of different forms. 
If you’re paid four-to-one on something that’s an even money proposition, why, that’s a value 
proposition, too. 
It’s high school algebra. And people who don’t know how to use high school algebra should 
take up some other activity. 
16. Health care is too tough for Berkshire 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 12. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: — morning. Good morning. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Morning. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Mike Klein, and I’m a general surgeon from Salinas, California. 
Given your resources and experience in underwriting insurance, do you have any thoughts of 
entering into, or helping to solve, our health care mess? 
Time is right for a new approach with Berkshire’s clarity brought to the formula. Let’s 
acknowledge the stakes are huge with implication for our economy and our future as a country. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Let me try that one. It’s too tough. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I would — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Warren and I can’t solve that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we can’t solve that one. 
We try to look for easy problems because those are the ones we find we have the answers for. 
And you can do that in investments. We don’t really try tough things. 
Now, sometimes life hands you a problem, not in the financial area in our case, usually, but it 
will hand you a problem that is very tough and that you have to wrestle with. 
But we don’t go around looking for tough problems. I would say this: we do very, very little in 
health insurance. You know, if we were to have — if we were looking for a solution through the 
private sector, we would be looking for something with very, very low distribution costs. 
I mean, you do not want a lot of the revenue soaked up in frictional costs between the benefits 
paid and the premiums received. 
I don’t know how to do that, and I haven’t seen anybody else that’s very good at doing it, and 
you can say if you’re paying close to 15 percent of GDP for health costs, you know, somebody 
ought to be able to figure out something, but I haven’t heard it. 
Maybe we’ll hear it in the upcoming political campaign but Charlie’s views reflect mine at the 
present. 
17. Munger on what’s driven Berkshire’s “extreme” success 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now we’re going to go to the grand ballroom. We have these two overflow 
rooms that are full — or more or less full — and the grand ballroom is number. 13. Would they 
come in, please? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is Phil McCall (PH) from Connecticut. 
I wondered if you could comment on a subject I don’t think you like to talk about very much, 
which is intrinsic value, and the evolution over the past 10 or 12 years of going to — off and on 
— but giving us investments and then giving us the operating income and suggesting that might 
be a good guide to us. 
I find it extremely helpful. I’m not sure other people do when looking out the 20 years you’re 
talking about, looking ahead on both those two parts. Any comments you might have, I’d surely 
appreciate. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, the intrinsic value of Berkshire, like any other businesses, is 
based on the future amount of cash that can be expected to be delivered by the business 
between now and judgment day, discounted back at the proper rate. 
Now, that’s pretty nebulous. Another way of looking at it is to try and figure out the value of 
the businesses we own presently, and we try to give you the information that will enable you to 
make a reasonably close estimate at that. 
We own lots of marketable securities. It’s probably safe to say that they’re worth more or less 
what they are carried for. And then we own a number of operating businesses, and we try to 
give you the figures on those businesses that are the figures that we use in making our own 
judgments about the value of those businesses. 
Now, that tells you what we have today and more or less what it’s worth. But since Berkshire 
retains all of its earnings, it becomes very important to evaluate what will be done with those 
earnings over time. 
I mean, it is not only a question what the present businesses are worth. It’s a judgment on the 
efficiency or the effectiveness with which retained earnings will be used. 
If you had looked at the intrinsic value of Berkshire in 1965, we had a textile business that was 
probably worth about $12 a share. But that was not the only part of the equation, because we 
intended to use any cash generated to try and buy into better businesses than we had, and we 
were fortunate to be able to buy in the insurance business in 1967 and build on that. 
So it was not only a combination of the business we had, but the skill with which retained 
earnings would be used, that determined what the present value actually should have been at 
Berkshire going back that far. 
It’s the same situation today. We will put to work billions and billions of dollars this year and 
next year and the year after. If we put that to work effectively, each dollar has a greater present 
value than a dollar has simply in cash or distributed. If we do ineffectively, it has a value of 
something less. 
The businesses today, you know, we have whatever the figure is in the annual report — roughly 
$80,000 in marketable securities. 
If our insurance business breaks even, that $80,000 is free to us, in terms of using it. And we 
have a group of operating businesses and we show their earnings in the report and we’re going 
to try to add to those and they’ll try to add to their earnings. 
But if Charlie and I were each right now to write down on a piece of paper what we think the 
intrinsic value of Berkshire is, our figures would not be the same. They’d be reasonably close. 
And I think with that, I’ll turn it over to Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. What’s hard to judge at Berkshire is the likelihood that you’ll have 
anything like the past to look forward to in the future. 
Berkshire has gotten very extreme, in terms of investment results. In fact, it’s gotten so 
extreme that it’s hard to think of another similar precedent in the history of the world. 
And the balance sheet is gross, considering the small beginnings of the place. Now, what on 
earth has caused this extreme record to go on for such a very long time? 
I would argue that the young man who was reading everything he could read when he was 10-
years-old became a learning machine, and he got a lot of power early, and then he got a very 
long run when he kept learning. 
If Warren had not been learning all the while, I’m telling you having watched the process 
closely, the record would be a pale shadow of what it is. And Warren has improved since he 
passed the retirement age of man. 
In other words, in this field, at least, you can improve when you’re old. 
Now, most people don’t even try and create that kind of a record. They pass power from one 
65-year-old to one 59-year-old and then do it over and over again. But you get an enormous 
advantage from practice in this field. 
And so what happened accidentally in the case of Warren has helped you shareholders greatly 
because you had this long run with power extremely concentrated, and with the man holding 
the power being a ferocious learner. 
Our system ought to be more copied than it is. (Applause) 
This idea of passing the power from one old codger to another, in a settled way, is not 
necessarily the right system at all. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We have a very strong culture now of rationality, of being owner-oriented, 
that will go on long after I’m not around. And we have a talent on the operating side in place to 
do a lot of wonderful things over time. 
We will need, in capital allocation, to keep doing intelligent things. We won’t get to do brilliant 
things because you don’t get to do brilliant things with the kind of sums we’re talking about. 
Maybe once in a blue moon or something, you know, you’ll get a chance. 
But we will need somebody that never does — basically doesn’t do any dumb things, and 
occasionally does something that’s reasonably good. That can be done. 
And we have — we’re on that road already. It does not — fitting into this organization as an 
investment officer or a capital allocator, you’re getting in the right vehicle. It has the right 
standards. It will reject ideas that really are irrational. 
I’ve been on a lot of boards. Charlie’s been on a lot of boards. You would be amazed at the 
number of things that are responding to “animal spirits” rather than to rationality that take 
place. And we have our animal spirits but we devote them to other areas. 
18. “Deficient” auditing of derivatives will cause problems 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go on to number 14. That’s in — that’s in the junior ballroom. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes. Hi, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. This is Whitney Tilson, a shareholder 
from New York. 
For many years both of you have been warning about the dangers of derivatives, at one point 
calling them “financial weapons of mass destruction.” 
Yet every year, tens of trillions of dollars of derivatives are bought and sold. It just seems to be 
getting bigger and bigger and almost certainly improperly accounted for. 
And so I was wondering if you could comment, and, specifically, if you have any thoughts on 
how much longer this might go on. 
Do you see anything imminent that could derail this ever inflating bubble? What might trigger 
it? And who should be doing what to try and mitigate this looming danger? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we’ve tried to do a little to mitigate it ourselves by talking about it, 
but the — you’re right, the — and it isn’t the derivative itself. I mean, there’s nothing evil about 
a derivative instrument. 
As I mentioned, we have 60-some of them at Berkshire, and on Monday I’ll go over with the 
directors — I’ll go over all 60-some and, believe me, we’ll make money out of those particular 
instruments. 
But they — usage of them on an expanding basis, more and more imaginative ways of using 
them, introduces, essentially, more and more leverage into the system. 
And it’s an invisible — or largely invisible — sort of leverage. If you go back to the 1920s, after 
the crash, the United States government held hearings. 
They decided that leverage — margin, in those days, as they called it — leverage contributed 
to, perhaps, the crash itself and certainly to the extent of the crash. And it was like pouring 
gasoline on a fire was — when people’s holdings got tripped, you know, when stocks went 
down 10 percent people had to sell, another 10 percent, more people had to sell and so on. 
Leverage was regarded as dangerous and the United States government empowered the 
Federal Reserve to regulate margin requirements, regulate leverage, and that was taken very 
seriously. 
And for decades it was a source of real attention. I mean, if you went to a bank and tried to 
borrow money on a stock, they made you sign certain papers as to — that you weren’t in 
violation of the margin requirements, and they policed it. 
And it was taken quite seriously when the Fed increased or decreased margin requirements. It 
was a signal of how they felt about the level of speculation. 
Well, the introduction of derivatives and index futures, all that sort of thing, has just totally 
made any regulation of margin requirements a joke. 
They still exist and, you know, it’s an anachronism. 
So I believe — I think Charlie probably agrees with me — that we may not know where, exactly, 
the danger begins and where — and at what point it becomes a superdanger and so on. 
We certainly don’t know what will end it, precisely. We don’t know when it will end, precisely. 
But we probably — at least I believe — that it will go on and increase to the point where at 
some point there will be some very unpleasant things happen in markets because of it. 
You saw one example of what can happen under forced sales back in October 19, 1987, when 
you had so-called portfolio insurance. 
Now, portfolio insurance — and you ought to go back and read the literature for the couple 
years preceding that. I mean, this was something that came out of academia and it was 
regarded as a great advance in financial theories and everything. 
It was a joke. It was a bunch of stop-loss orders which, you know, go back 150 years or 
something, except that they were done automatically and in large scale by institutions and they 
were merchandise. 
People paid a lot of money to people to teach them how to put in a stop-loss order. And what 
happened, of course, was that if you have a whole series of stop-loss orders by very big 
institutions, you are pouring gasoline on fire. 
And when October 19th came along, you had a 22 percent shrink in the value of American 
business, caused, essentially, by a doomsday machine. A dead hand was selling as each level got 
hit. And three weeks earlier, you know, people were proclaiming the beauty of this. 
Well, that is nothing compared — it was a formal arrangement to have these — this dynamic 
hedging or portfolio insurance — sell things. 
But you have the same thing existing when you have fund operators operating with billions in 
aggregate, trillions of dollars, leveraged, who will respond to the same stimulus. 
They have what we would call a “crowded trade,” but they don’t know it. It’s not a formal 
crowded trade. 
It’s just that they’re all ready to sell if a certain given signal or a certain given activity occurs. 
And when you get that, coupled with extreme leverage which derivatives allow, you will 
someday get a very, very chaotic situation. 
I have no idea when. I have no idea what the exogenous factor — I didn’t know that shooting 
some archduke, you know, would start World War I, and I have no idea what will cause this kind 
of a thing, but it will happen. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. And, of course, the accounting being deficient enormously 
contributes to the risks. 
If you get paid enormous bonuses based on reporting profits that don’t exist, you’re going to 
keep doing whatever causes those phony profits to keep appearing on the books. 
And what makes that so difficult is that most of the accounting profession doesn’t even 
recognize how stupidly it is behaving. 
And one of the people in charge of accounting standards said to me, “Well, this is better, this 
derivative accounting, because it’s mark-to-market, and don’t we want current information?” 
And I said, “Yes. But if you mark-to-model, and you create the models, and your accountants 
trust your models, and you can just report whatever profit you want as long as you keep 
expanding the positions bigger and bigger and bigger, the way human nature is, that will cause 
terrible results and terrible behavior.” 
And this person said to me, “Well, you just don’t understand accounting.” (Laughter.) 
WARREN BUFFETT: If four years ago, or whenever it was, when we started to liquidate Gen Re’s 
portfolio, we had reserves set up for in the hundreds and millions and all sorts of things. 
And our auditor — and I emphasize any other of the Big Four auditors absolutely would have 
attested to the fact that our stuff was mark-to-market. 
You know, I just wish I’d sold the portfolio to the auditors that day. (Laughs) I’d be 400 million 
better off. 
So it’s a real problem. Now there’s one thing that’s really quite interesting to me. If I owe you, 
on my dry cleaning bill or something, $15, and they’re auditing the dry cleaners, they check 
with me and they find out that I owe you $15 and it’s all fine. 
If they’re auditing me, they find out I owe the dry cleaner 15 bucks. There are only four big 
auditing firms, you know, basically in this country. 
And I will — so in many cases, if they’re auditing my side of the derivative transaction, you 
know, what I’m valuing it at, the same firm may often be valuing — or attesting to the value of 
the mark by the person on the other side of the contract. 
I will guarantee you that if you add up the marks on both sides, they don’t equate out to zero. 
We have 60-some contracts, and I will bet that people are valuing them differently on the other 
side than we value themselves, and it won’t be to the disadvantage of the trader on the other 
side. 
I don’t get paid based on how ours are valued, so I have no reason to want to game the system. 
But there are people out on the other side that do have reasons to game the system. 
So if I’m valuing some contract at plus a million dollars for Berkshire, that contract on the other 
side, it’s just one piece of paper, should be valued at a minus 1 million by somebody else. 
But I think you probably have cases — and this is — I’m not talking about our auditors, I’m 
talking about all four of the firms — but they have many cases where they are attesting to 
values that — of the exact same piece of paper — where the numbers are widely different on 
both sides. 
Do you have any thoughts on that, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I — as sure as God made little green apples, this is going to cause a lot 
of trouble in due course. 
As long as it keeps expanding and ballooning and so on and the convulsions are minor, it can 
just go on and on. But eventually there will be a big denouement. 
19. Dangers of short-term investing and advanced mathematics 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go back to number one. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. I’m Stanley Ku from Hong Kong. My question is about a proliferation of 
short-term mindset to investing. 
As more and more money is being placed under absolute return mandate, these managers, as 
you just said, responded the same response, and tried to trade issues. 
So with credit spread on — I should say, risk premium — on various products declining across 
the board and correlation across markets increasing, can we read into it and say what is healthy 
or not healthy for the economy or the markets? And can we arguably say the portfolio 
insurance dynamics is already in place today? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think you put your finger on it. And, you know, we do think it’s 
unhealthy. 
Obviously, if you take — and no way of precisely measuring this, but I’m quite certain I’m right 
— if you take the degree to which, say, either bonds or stocks, the percentage of them that are 
held by people who could change their minds tomorrow morning based on a given stimulus, 
whether it be something the Fed does or whether it be some kind of an accident in financial 
markets, the percentage is far higher. 
There is an electronic herd of people around the world managing huge amounts of money who 
think that a decision on everything in their portfolio should be made, basically, daily or hourly 
or by the minute. 
And that has increased turnover on the New York Stock Exchange — and I don’t know the exact 
figures — but I think it was down around the 15 or 20 percent range 40 years ago and it’s 
increased it to a hundred percent, I believe, plus, now. 
So — and certainly in the bond market, the turnover of bonds has increased dramatically. 
People used to buy bonds to own them and they’d buy bonds to trade them. 
And there’s nothing evil about that, but it just means that the participants are playing a 
different game, and that different game can have different consequences than in a buy-and-
hold environment. 
And I do think it means that if you’re trying to beat the other fellow on a day-to-day basis, 
you’re watching news events very carefully or watching the other fellow very carefully. 
If you think he’s about to hit that key, you know, you’re going to try to hit the key faster, if 
that’s the game you’re playing and if you’re getting measured on results weekly. 
So I think that you describe the conditions that will lead to a result that we’ve been talking 
about expecting at some point. 
It’s not new to markets, though. I mean, markets will do crazy things over time. Every time — 
when Charlie and I were at Salomon, they’d always talk to us about five sigma events or six 
sigma events, and that’s fine if you’re talking about flipping coins, but it doesn’t mean anything 
when you get human behavior involved. 
And people do things that — and intelligent people do things — very intelligent, educated 
people do things — that are totally irrational, and they do them en masse. 
And you saw it in 1998. You saw it in 2002. And you’ll see it again. And you’ll see it — it’s more 
likely to happen when you have people trying to beat currency, bond, stock markets, day by 
day. 
It’s — I think it’s a fool’s game. But — you know, it may be what’s required to attract money. 
When I set up my partnership, I told the partners, you know, you’ll hear from me once a year. 
And I even thought — in 1962 I put the partnerships together and in May of 1962 the market 
got terrible — and I actually thought of sending all my partners a letter, and then sending it 
down to Brazil to have it reshipped back up, just to sort of test them out, but — how they felt 
about things. 
But, you know, I had a few with bad hearts. I decided it wasn’t worthwhile. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. When people talk about sigmas, in terms of disaster potentialities in 
markets, they’re all crazy. 
They got the idea that bad results in markets would be predicted by Gaussian distributions. And 
the way they decided on that outcome was it made everything so easy to compute. 
They don’t follow Gaussian distributions. You have to believe in the Tooth Fairy to believe that. 
And the disasters are bigger and more irritating than [German mathematician Carl Friedrich] 
Gauss would have predicted. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It was easier to teach as well. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s easier to teach, too. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I once asked a distinguished medical school professor why he was still doing 
an obsolete procedure, and he said, “It’s so wonderful to teach.” (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: There’s more of that in finance departments than you might think. 
It’s very discouraging to learn advanced mathematics and, you know, how to do things that 
none but the priesthood can do in your field, and then find out it doesn’t have any meaning, 
you know. 
And what you do when confronted with that knowledge, after you’ve invested these years to 
get your Ph.D., you know, and you’ve maybe written a textbook and a paper or two, having a 
revelation that that stuff has no utility at all, and really has counter-utility, I’m not sure, you 
know, too many people can handle it well. And I think they just generally keep on teaching. 
20. Quantitative approach to intrinsic value and investments 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 2. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. Burkhardt Whittick (PH) from Munich in Germany. 
I would like to get some more transparency on how you make investment decisions, particularly 
how you determine intrinsic value. 
You mentioned that the theoretically correct method is discounted cash flow, but at the same 
time you point out the inherent difficulties of the methodology. 
From other books, I see that you use multiples on operating earnings, or (inaudible) multiples. 
Your [former] daughter [in law] Mary, in one of her books, describes another methodology 
where you apply compounding economics to the value of the equity. 
Could you give us a bit more transparency which quantitative approach you use and how many 
years out you try to quantify the results of the investments you’re interested in? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I understand the question, but I’m going to pretend I don’t and let Charlie 
answer first. (Laughs) 
I really do. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. When you’re trying to determine something like intrinsic value and 
margin of safety and so on, there’s no one easy method that could be simply mechanically 
applied by, say, a computer and make anybody who could punch the buttons rich. 
By definition, this is going to be a game which you play with multiple techniques and multiple 
models, and a lot of experience is very helpful. 
I don’t think you can become a great investor very rapidly any more than you could become a 
great bone tumor pathologist very rapidly. It takes some experience and that’s why it’s helpful 
to get a very early start. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But if you’re — let’s just say that we all decided we’re going to buy a — or 
think about — buying a farm. 
And we go up 30-miles north of here and we find out that a farm up there can produce 120 
bushels of corn, and it can produce 45 bushels of soybean per acre, and we know what fertilizer 
costs, and we know what the property taxes cost, and we know what we’ll have to pay the 
farmer to actually do the work involved, and we’ll get some number that we can make per acre, 
using fairly conservative assumptions. 
And let’s just assume that when you get through making those calculations that it turns out to 
be that you can make $70 an acre to the owner without working at it. 
Then the question is how much do you pay for the $70? Do you assume that agriculture will get 
a little bit better over the years so that your yields will be a little higher? 
Do you assume that prices will work a little higher over time? They haven’t done much of that, 
although recently, it’s been good with corn and soybeans. But over the years agriculture prices 
have not done too much. So you would be conservative in your assumptions, then. 
And you might decide that for $70 an acre, you know, you would want a — if you decided you 
wanted a 7 percent return, you’d pay a thousand dollars an acre. 
You know, if farmland is selling for 900, you know you’re going to have a buy signal. And if it’s 
selling for 1200, you’re going to look at something else. That’s what we do in businesses. 
We are trying to figure out what those corporate farms that we’re looking at are going to 
produce. And to do that we have to understand their competitive position. We have to 
understand the dynamics of the business. 
We have to be able to look out in the future. And like I’ve said earlier, some businesses you 
can’t look out very far at. 
But the mathematics of investment were set out by Aesop in 600BC. And he said, “A bird in the 
hand is worth two in the bush.” 
Now our question is, when do we get the two? How long do we wait? How sure are we that 
there are two in the bush? Could there be more, you know? What’s the right discount rate? 
And we measure one against the other that way. I mean, we are looking at a whole bunch of 
businesses, how many birds are they going to give us, when are they going to give them to us, 
and we try to decide which ones — basically, which bushes — we want to buy out in the future. 
It’s all about evaluating future — the future ability — to distribute cash, or to reinvest cash at 
high rates if it isn’t distributed. 
Berkshire has never distributed any cash, but it’s grown in its cash producing abilities, and we 
retain it because we think we can create more than a dollar present value by retaining it. But 
it’s the ability to distribute cash that gives Berkshire its value. 
And we try to increase that ability to distribute cash year by year by year and then we try to 
keep it and invest it in a way so that a dollar bill is worth more than a dollar. 
You may have an insight into very few businesses. I mean, if we left here and walked by a 
McDonald’s stand, you know, and you decided, would you pay a million dollars for that 
McDonald’s stand, or a million-three, or 900,000, you’d think about how likely it was there 
would be more competition, whether McDonald’s could change the franchise arrangement on 
you, whether people are going to keep eating hamburgers, you know, all kinds of things. 
And you actually would say to yourself this McDonald’s stand will make X — X plus 5 percent — 
maybe in a couple years because over time prices will increase a little. 
And that’s all investing is. But you have to know when you know what you’re doing, and you 
have to know when you’re getting outside of what I call your circle of competency, you don’t 
have the faintest idea. 
Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. The other thing, you’ve got to recognize that we’ve never had any 
system for being able to make correct judgments on the values of all businesses. 
We throw almost all decisions into the too hard pile, and we just sift for a few decisions that we 
can make that are easy. And that’s a comparative process. 
And if you’re looking for an ability to correctly value all investments at all times, we can’t help 
you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. We know how to step over one-foot bars. We don’t know how to jump 
over seven-foot bars. 
But we do know how to recognize, occasionally, what is a one-foot bar. And we know enough 
to stay away from the seven-foot bars, too. 
21. What Buffett wants as he hires portfolio managers 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: John Stevo (PH), shareholder from Chicago. Mr. Buffett — Mr. Buffett, Mr. 
Munger, thank you for the great weekend. 
In your annual shareholders letter, you stated that you’re looking for someone younger to 
possibly work at Berkshire, and I was wondering if you could expand on that, and how would I 
apply for that job? (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think you just did. (Laughter) 
The — we’re looking for one or more. I mean, I would — I don’t think it’s at all impossible we 
might even find three or four that we would decide to have run some money and to take a 
closer look. 
We’re not looking for someone to teach. I probably didn’t make that clear enough in the annual 
report. We’re not — we’re not going to be mentors or teachers or anything of the sort. 
We’re looking for somebody that we think knows how to do it. And there are people like that 
out there. We’ve heard from 6- or 700. 
I did hear — I heard from one that had a four-year-old son. I thought that was quite a 
compliment that — I mean, I knew a caveman could do my job, but a four-year-old? (Laughter) 
The — but we’re looking — and we’ve heard from a number of very intelligent people. We have 
heard from a number of people that have had good investment records for — in recent years, 
and in some cases some time. 
The biggest problem we have is whether they would scale up, because it’s a different job to run 
a hundred billion than it is to run a hundred million. 
And incidentally — and you can’t do as well running a hundred billion as a hundred million, in 
terms of returns. You can’t come close to doing it. That doesn’t bother us. 
But we do want to find somebody that we think can run large sums of money mildly better than 
the general performance in securities. And I emphasize mildly. 
There’s no way in the world somebody’s going to beat the S&P by 10 percentage points a year 
with a hundred billion dollars. It isn’t going to happen. 
But we think maybe we can find somebody or some group, several of them, that can maybe be 
a couple percentage points better, but we really are interested in being sure that we have 
somebody that, under conditions that people haven’t even seen yet, will not blow it. 
You know, anything times zero is zero. And I don’t care how many wonderful figures are in 
between. 
So we are looking for somebody that’s wired in a way that they see risks that other people 
don’t see that haven’t occurred, and they’re plenty cognizant of the risks that have occurred. 
And those people are fairly rare. Charlie and I have seen a lot of very smart people go broke, or 
end up with very mediocre records where, you know, 99 out of the 100 things they did were 
intelligent but the hundredth did them in. 
So our job is to filter through these hundreds and hundreds of applications, find a couple of 
them that we think can do the job who are much younger, perhaps give them a chunk — two, 
three, five billion — have them manage it for some time, have them manage it in the kind of 
securities that they would scale up to a larger portfolio because — and then either one or more 
of them will get the job turned over to them at some point. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. Our situation in looking for this help reminds me of an apocryphal tail 
about Mozart. And a young man of 25 or so once asked to see Mozart and he said, “I’m thinking 
of starting to write symphonies, and I’d like to get your advice.” 
And Mozart said, “Well, you’re too young to write symphonies.” And the guy says, “But you 
were writing them when you were ten-years-old.” And Mozart says, “Yes, but I wasn’t asking 
anybody else for advice how to do it.” (Laughter.) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And so if you remind yourself of young Mozart, why, you’re the man for us. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We will come up with, probably, a couple of people. And, you know, it’s — 
I’ve known people over the years. 
I’ve been in the job before. I mean, in 1969 I wound up my partnership, and I had a lot of 
people that trusted me, and I wasn’t going to just mail the money back to them and, you know, 
say good-bye, because they would have been sort of adrift, most of them. 
And so I had the job of finding somebody to replace me. And there were three absolutely stand-
out candidates. Any one of the three would have been a great choice. 
Charlie was one of them. Sandy Gottesman was one of them. And Bill Ruane was one of them. 
Charlie wasn’t interested in having more partners. 
Sandy was interested in individual accounts and took on the accounts of some of my partners 
and they were very, very happy and they’re still happy that he did it. 
And Bill Ruane set up a separate mutual fund called Sequoia Fund to take care of all of the 
partners, whether they had small amounts or not. And he did a sensational job. 
So I really identified three people in 1969 that were not only superior money managers, but 
that were also the kind that could never get you a terrible result and that were terrific stewards 
of capital. 
Now, they were about my age at the time so it was a universe that I was familiar with, and now 
I have the problem that at — the people I know that are even close to my age, we don’t want 
anyway, and besides, most of them are already rich. They don’t care about having a job. 
So I have to look into an age cohort where I don’t really know lots of people, but it can be done. 
And like I say, we did it successfully with three people in 1969. And it was done successfully in 
1979 with Lou Simpson for GEICO. 
And I never knew Lou Simpson before I met him down at the airport here, and I spent a few 
hours with him, and it was clear that he was a steward of capital. He was going to get an above-
average result, and there was no chance he was going to get a bad result. 
And he’s been managing money for GEICO now for 28 years, roughly. 
So it’s doable. It’s a little more work than I like to do. I’ve been kind of spoiled. But I’ll — I’ve got 
a job to do on it, and I’ll do it. 
22. Buffett and Munger differ on climate change 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 4? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. I’m Glen Strong (PH) from Canton, Ohio. 
Please tell us where you stand on the global warming debate or where your managers at 
General Re stand. 
In particular, perhaps you can give us your thoughts on the science of global warming and how 
serious you believe it is, and whether warming is actually more harmful than helpful. Thank 
you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yep. Well, I believe the odds are good that it is serious. I’m not enough of a 
— I can’t say that with 100 percent certainty or 90 percent certainty, but I think that there’s 
enough evidence that it would be very foolish to say that it’s 100 percent certain or 90 percent 
certain that it isn’t a problem. 
And since it’s — if it is a problem, it’s a problem that once it manifests itself to a very significant 
degree, it’s a little too late to do something about it. 
In other words, you really have to build the ark before the rains come, in this case. I think if you 
make a mistake, in terms of a social decision, you should, what I call err, on the side of the 
planet. 
In other words, you should build a margin of safety into your thinking about the future of the 
only planet we’ve got a hundred years from now. 
So I think — I take it seriously. In terms of our own businesses, you mentioned General Re. Gen 
Re writes less — way less business — that would be subject to the annual increments in global 
warming that would have an effect on their results than the reinsurance division of National 
Indemnity, where we write far more of the catastrophe business. 
It’s not going to affect, you know, in any measurable degree at all, you know, excess casualty 
insurance, property insurance. You’re thinking much more of whether it’s going to produce 
atmospheric changes that change materially the probabilities of really — of catastrophes, both 
their frequency and their intensity. 
In my own mind, and in the minds of the people that run National Indemnity’s reinsurance 
division, we crank — we think the exposure goes up every year because of what’s going on in 
the atmosphere, even though we don’t understand very well what goes on in the atmosphere. 
And the relationship between damage caused and the causal factors is not linear at all. I mean, 
it can be explosive. 
So if temperatures in the waters of the Atlantic or something change by relatively small 
amounts, or what seem like small amounts, it could increase the expectable losses from a given 
hurricane season by a factor of two, three, four or five. 
So we’re plenty cautious about it. It’s not something that keeps me up, in terms of our financial 
prospects, at all at Berkshire. But it’s something that I think every citizen ought to be very 
cognizant of and make a decision on. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, of course carbon dioxide is what plants eat. And so — and generally 
speaking, I think it’s a little more comfortable to have it a little warmer instead of a little colder. 
(Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I hope you don’t get a chance to test that after death, Charlie. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It isn’t as though there’s a vast flood of people trying to move to North 
Dakota from southern California. 
And so you’re talking about dislocation. It’s not at all clear to me that, net, it would be worse 
for mankind in general to have the planet a little hotter. 
But the dislocations would cause agonies for a great many places, particularly those that would 
soon find themselves underwater. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I was going to ask you. How do you feel about the sea level being 15 
or 20 feet higher? (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, that’s very unfortunate, but — (Laughter) 
Holland lives with what, 25 percent of the nation below sea level? With enough time and 
enough capital, why, these things can be adjusted, too. 
I don’t think it’s an utter calamity for man that threatens the whole human race or anything like 
that. You know, you’d have to be a pot-smoking journalism student or something to — 
(Applause) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — believe that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We’re finally unleashing him, folks. (Laughter) 
