Afternoon Session - 2014 Meeting 
1. Record attendance 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, let’s get ready to proceed. 
We never get any precise figures, because people come and go from the meeting. But I did 
know that we sent out about 11,000 more tickets this year than in any other year, and we had 
all the overflow rooms filled. We’re using space in a room over at the Hilton and everything, so 
clearly this year we have substantial more attendance than any year in the past, and I hope the 
spending patterns reflect that. (Laughter) 
2. Risk of change to businesses 
WARREN BUFFETT: So with that, we’ll go to Becky. Assuming she’s here. 
BECKY QUICK: I am, I’m here. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. 
BECKY QUICK: Let’s see, this is a question that comes, and I hope I pronounce your name 
correctly, Michael. 
It’s Michael — Michael Locheck (PH) and he says, “Energy Future Holdings’ likely bankruptcy is a 
consequence of unexpected and dramatic decline in prices of natural gas prices caused by a 
revolution in drilling technology. To what extent do you believe other assets held in Berkshire’s 
portfolio, debt, equity, et cetera, may be subject to disruptive technological or other changes 
that erode business models and barriers to entry?” 
“For example, changes in consumer behavior and regulation could affect Coca-Cola. Revolution 
in payment systems could affect American Express, ever-increasing rate of change in 
technology and competitive landscape could affect IBM, wireless delivery of media content and 
urbanization could be disruptive to DirecTV. 
“Could you also comment on whether participation of some sponsors of Energy Future 
Holdings, which include the very best of private equity, contributed to your decision to invest? 
Was it the degree of crowd mentality at play, and what lessons are to be learned from the 
experience?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well. I would be unwilling to share the credit for my decision to invest 
in Energy Future Holdings with anybody else. I would think that’s very unfair of anyone to 
insinuate that they had anything to do with that decision. 
That was just a mistake on my part. It was a big — it was a significant mistake, and we will make 
mistakes in the future. 
All businesses should constantly be thinking about what can mess up their business model. And 
with Energy Future Holdings it was a fairly simple assumption that was made that just turned 
out to be wrong. 
I mean, the assumption there was that gas prices would stay roughly as high as they were or go 
higher, and instead they went a whole lot lower. 
And at that point the whole place toppled. They had a lot of reserve holdings and they had 
some futures positions which kept them alive for a while. But that was a basic error. 
We look at all of our businesses as subject to change. A classic case would be GEICO. I mean, 
GEICO set out in 1936 to operate at low costs and pass on those low costs to the customer 
through lower prices for something that was a necessity, auto insurance. 
And they originally did it by mail offerings, U.S. Postal Service, two people who were 
government employees. That’s where the name comes from, GEICO, Government Employees 
Insurance Company. 
And they had to adapt over the years, and they adapted first to widening classifications. But 
they went from the U.S. mail, primarily, to the telephone, and later went to the internet, and 
onto social media. 
But in there they stumbled one time, too, as they went to adapt, and they — when they left the 
government employees classification, at one point they became too aggressive about 
expanding and they almost — they really did go broke. 
So there’s — change is going on all the time, and it’s going on with all of our businesses. And we 
want managers that are thinking about change, and what can — what’s going to be needed for 
their business model in the future. And we know they’re not going look the same five or ten 
years from now. 
I mean, BNSF, something as basic as railroads, is looking big at LNG for its locomotives. 
Everything is going to change. 
Our businesses generally deal from strength and they’re generally not subject to rapid change. 
But they’re all subject to change, and of course, slow change can be much harder to perceive, 
and can lull you to sleep easier, sometimes than when rapid change is clearly in sight. 
So I would say, in answer to that question, A) I will make mistakes in the future. I mean, when 
you — that’s guaranteed. 
We do not make anything like “bet the company” decisions that will ever cause us real anguish. 
That just doesn’t happen at Berkshire. But you’re not going to make a lot of decisions without 
making some significant mistakes. 
And occasionally they work out very well. Charlie and I, and Sandy Gottesman, in 1966, bought 
a department store in Baltimore. Now, there’s probably nothing dumber than buying a 
department store in the mid-1960s. There were four department stores on the corner of 
Howard and Lexington Street in Baltimore in 1966, and none of them are there. And the 
number one store, Hutzler’s, went broke a little later than our store went broke. 
But fortunately Sandy did a great job of selling it, so the $6 million invested in that department 
store became worth about $45 billion in Berkshire Hathaway stock as we did other things with 
the money as we went along. 
So you do have to be very alert to what is going on in your businesses, and we want our 
managers to do that. But actually, it’s something that Charlie and I, and our directors, are going 
to think about, as well as our managers. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I spoke earlier about the desirability of removing your ignorance piece 
by piece, and there’s another trick, which is scrambling out of your mistakes. And we’ve been 
quite good at both, and it’s enormously useful. 
Imagine Berkshire, a textile mill sure to go broke because power costs in New England were 
about twice as high as they were in TVA country, a sure-to-fail department store, and a trading 
stamp sure to be forced out of business by change in mode. Out of that comes Berkshire 
Hathaway. Talk about scrambling out of mistakes, I think of what we might have done if we’d 
had a better start. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. The point was driven home to me — my great-grandfather started a 
grocery store here in Omaha in 1869. And my grandfather was running it in 1929, and he wrote 
my uncle who was going to be running it with him. 
And the letter started out, this is in 1929, “The day of the chain store is over.” And that is why 
we ended up with one grocery store, which went out of business in 1969. 
It — you really have to face facts around you, and the wish being father to the thought was, 
unfortunately, what overcame my grandfather. 
3. Heinz earning power 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, Jay? 
JAY GELB: This question is on the Heinz transaction. 
Berkshire’s 50 percent ownership in Heinz is included in Berkshire’s results, which can be 
meaningful to its earnings over time. 
What is Heinz’s current normalized earning power, after the substantial restructuring of the 
business, and what do you anticipate Heinz could earn within a few years? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, Heinz will be filing its own 10-Qs. In fact, I guess its first quarter 
would be — they went to a calendar year now — first quarter would be about due now. So 
you’ll get to see Heinz’s figures. 
And I will say this, that Heinz was actually a very reasonably run food company with about 15 
percent pre-tax margins for many years, and that’s not an unusual operating margin in the food 
business. 
And I would just invite you to look quarter by quarter and maybe next year, too, I think the 
margins of Heinz will be significantly improved from those historical figures. What Bernardo 
Hees and his associates have done there is — they’ve just restructured the business model. 
And I think that the brands, which are all-important, are as strong as ever. And I think the cost 
structure is going to be significantly improved without cutting into marketing expenditures. 
So I think you’ll see a significant improvement, but I don’t want to name a number on that. 
You’ll find it out soon enough. 
4. Buy companies or stock? 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is Dev Contessaria (PH) and I’m 
a fund manager from Philadelphia. 
You’ve touched on some of this already today, but I wanted to ask, if you could expand on how 
you think about comparing investment opportunity. 
In the past, you haven’t been afraid to make a single position a large portion of your portfolio, 
such as Coca-Cola. 
So when there is a chance to buy more of your favorite names, as in 2008 and early 2009, how 
did the case of buying more of companies like Coca-Cola or even a Moody’s, which had dropped 
from 75 to 15, as examples, compare with other things that you actually did? 
Could Berkshire have achieved its historical returns with a more simple, concentrated portfolio 
of your favorite names with positive characteristics such as durable competitive advantage, 
pricing power, strong organic growth, et cetera, versus the larger, more complex collection of 
businesses which exist today? Thank you. 
