CLIFF GALLANT: OK, sorry. Thank you again for the opportunity. The subject, generally, still is 
mortality. 
In your 2011 annual report, Berkshire disclosed that Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group 
made changes in its assumptions for mortality risk, which resulted in a charge, specifically 
saying that mortality rates had exceeded assumptions in the Swiss Re contract. 
Conversely in Gen Re’s Life/Health segment, they reported lower than expected mortality, and I 
believe these trends continued into the first quarter that we saw in the report last night. 
What was the surprise in the Swiss Re contract? And is there a difference in basic assumptions 
and trends for things like mortality rates among Berkshire’s different businesses? 
In the property-casualty businesses, for example, are the same assumptions and reserving 
philosophies applied companywide? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Starting off with the Swiss Re example, we wrote a very, very large contract 
of reinsurance with Swiss Re — I would say, I don’t know, a year-and-a-half ago now, or 
thereabouts — and it applied to their business written, I think, in 2004 and earlier. And they 
had a lot of business. It was American business. 
And we started seeing — we got reports quarterly — and we started seeing mortality figures 
coming in quarterly that were considerably above our expectations and what looked like should 
be the case — should have been the case — looking at their earlier figures. 
So at the end of last year — we have a stop-loss arrangement on this — so we set up a reserve 
that really reserves it to the worst case, except we present-value that. 
But until we get — until we figure out what can be done about that contract — and we have 
some possibilities in that respect — we will keep that reserved at this worst case. And so we 
took a charge for that amount. 
We do — we are reinsuring Swiss Re, and then they are reinsuring a bunch of American life 
insurers, and there is ability to reprice that business as we go along, but the degree to which we 
and Swiss Re might want to reprice that may be a subject of controversy, we’ll see, so we just 
decided to put it up on a worst-case basis. 
Getting to the question of how GEICO reserves, how Gen Re reserves, I would say that — it’s 
described to some extent in our annual report — but I would say that the one overriding 
principle is that we hope, and our plan is, to reserve conservatively. 
I mean, it’s a lot different reserving in the auto business, where on short-tail lines and physical 
damage and property damage, you know, you find out very quickly how you’re doing. 
