NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: En 2006, cuando Fruit de Loom compró la empresa, las 
condiciones empeoraron. 
INTERPRETER: In 2006, when Fruit of the Loom bought my factory, conditions got much worse. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: La empresa empezó hacer acumulación de personal esto para 
ahorrarse mas y no pagar renta. 
INTERPRETER: Fruit of the Loom began to consolidate personnel in order to save more on rent. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Esto ocasionó mucho molestar de salud en los trabajadores, 
como ser dolor en la espalda a causa de maquinaria de esta muy cerca, y esto provoca un 
recalentamiento. 
INTERPRETER: This created many conditions in the factory that caused health problems for 
workers, such as pain in our backs being caused by the heat from the sewing machines, which 
were now pressed into our backs, because of the limited space. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Esto significa una inseguridad en un momento de evacuación. 
INTERPRETER: The close proximity also made it very dangerous in the case of an emergency 
evacuation. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: En nuestra fabrica, la ventilación era tan mala que esto nos 
provocaba enfermedades respiratorias como el cáncer del pulmón. 
INTERPRETER: In part, because of the overcrowding, as well, the ventilation was so poor that it 
caused many respiratory illnesses, including lung cancer. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: El agua de los filtros era contaminada. 
INTERPRETER: Even the filtered water was dirty. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Trabajamos de la 6:30 de la mañana hasta las 5:30 de la noche, 
con tan solo 15 minutos para almorzar. 
INTERPRETER: We worked from 6:30 in the morning until 5:30 at night with only 15 minutes for 
lunch. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Nuestros salarios eran demasiado bajos que no nos alcanzaba 
para pagar una niñera y la empresa no respeta el código de trabajo de nuestro país, porque no 
brinda guarderías de niños. 
INTERPRETER: Our wages were too low to afford childcare. And the management refused to 
provide onsite childcare, even though it was required by Honduran law. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Por eso, decidimos organizarlos para obligar el gerente que nos 
escuchara y que respetara nuestros derechos. 
INTERPRETER: Because of all of this, we decided to organize to compel management to clean up 
our factory. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Entonces, fue cuando despidió 145 trabajadores ilegalmente por 
organizarse a un sindicato. 
INTERPRETER: In retaliation, Russell illegally fired 145 workers for organizing a union. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Russell tenía que respetar el sindicato, constituido por la ley. Y 
entonces, Russell dijo que por causa al sindicato, iba a cerrar la empresa y que nos íbamos a 
quedar aguantando hambre. 
INTERPRETER: After we finally legally established our union, Russell said that because of the 
union, they would close down the factory and leave the workers to starve. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Fue cuando empezamos hacer amenazados a muerte los 
directivos. 
INTERPRETER: And this is when we started to receive death threats. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Me dejaban mensajes y dibujos en los baños y en el puesto de 
trabajo, diciéndome que me iban a cortar la cabeza. 
INTERPRETER: They would leave me notes and illustrations in the bathroom and at my 
workstation threatening to cut off my head. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Finalmente, Russell siguió y cumplió con su dicho, y cerro la 
planta el 30 de enero de este año. 
INTERPRETER: Finally, Russell Athletic did follow through with their threat and shut down the 
factory in January of this year. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Russell sostiene que nos ayudara a encontrar nuevos puesto de 
trabajo, pero en cambio la lista negra que tiene con nosotros y nos han impedido la búsqueda 
de nuevos empleos. 
INTERPRETER: Now, Russell has been claiming that they will help us find new jobs. But instead, 
they have blacklisted us, preventing us from finding work elsewhere. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Es por que tantas universidades han cortados su contratos con 
Russell y porque esto se ha convertido en un problema para esta empresa. 
INTERPRETER: This is why so many universities have stopped doing business with Russell and 
why this has become such a problem for Berkshire Hathaway. 
NORMA MEJÍA CASTELLANOS: Y por tanto, yo voto a favor de la resolución y exhortó que a los 
accionistas voten a favor. Gracias. 
INTERPRETER: And therefore, I second this resolution and urge that shareholders vote in favor. 
Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. I’d like to ask Mr. John Holland, the CEO of Fruit of the Loom, to 
respond to the comments just made, and after which, we will act on the motion. 
JOHN HOLLAND: First, I need to give you a little background. Russell was a public company 
listed on the New York Stock Exchange prior to the time that we acquired them in August of 
2006. The acquisition consisted of 47 facilities with a little over 14,000 workers. 
And, as we began to get involved with the Russell operations and how they were conducted, to 
integrate those into our operations, we found that there were a couple of plants in Honduras 
that had some problems. 
And we began — we acknowledged the problems. And we began immediately to remedy these 
problems. 
A little later, we had a letter from the WRC, the Workers Rights Commission (Consortium), 
indicating that there had been some abuses of the employees and that some had been 
terminated because they were involved in union activities. 
We were unaware of the union activities. And we investigated the abuses. But we thought it 
best to contact an independent third-party organization to do an audit. 
And we contacted the Free (Fair) Labor Association, which is kind of a worldwide organization 
that’s grouped with a group of businesses and the leading universities in the U.S. to try to make 
certain that workers’ rights are adhered to on a worldwide basis. 
We asked them to conduct the audit. And they conducted the audit. And all of the abuses that 
we had been charged with, they said, through the independent audit — they were nonexistent. 
But they did tell us that there were two supervisors who had conducted some abusive language 
with the employees and, also, that it was very likely that some employees might’ve been 
terminated due to their union activity. 
So as a result, they gave us a list of items that they would like us to follow to remedy the 
situation. The supervisors, as well as the management of the facilities, were eliminated. 
And we have started immediately, progressively, to implement all of the recommendations of 
the Free Labor Association’s independent audit. 
And part of that was that the workers that they felt might have been terminated due to union 
activities, that we reinstate the workers. 
The plant had not been organized at that point. So we voluntarily engaged the union and 
acknowledged them and accepted the union. 
And we rehired all of the workers that we could locate into a facility that was across the street 
from this particular plant. 
And since then, we have followed all of the recommendations of the Free Labor Association. 
And they have a monitoring process. 
And after about three months, there was another audit by the Free Labor Association and the 
Workers’ Rights Commission, which is another related organization. And they said that the 
activity that we engaged in, they were very well pleased with the progress. 
And as I said previously, we acknowledged the union and began negotiations. There was 
approximately 48 issues that they wanted to discuss. And we reached agreement on 24 of 
those. 
And we — the union even agreed that we had had very good relationships, that we had 
approached the negotiations openly and fairly. 
There were some other points that they wanted to move to arbitration on that — or mediation 
— that we could not agree on. 
And by that time, the time had passed till we reached the midyear of 2008, when the recession 
in the apparel industry dramatically affected our particular business. 
And over the course of the next few months, we had to close nine of our facilities. One of those 
was the Jerzees de Honduras plant that they have referred to. 
And there was a total of 12,780 employees involved in the plant closures. And out of that 
group, about 310 people, which has been acknowledged by the union, that were union 
employees, because in Honduras, under the laws there, only 30 people are required to form a 
union and be acknowledged as a union. 
And up until that time, there had been no indications of any issues that had been brought up by 
the union that were not solved. 
Now, beyond that, I would like to tell you a little about how we conduct business worldwide in 
our plants. 
We have been in Honduras since 1993. All of our plants are air conditioned, excellent 
ventilation in all of those facilities. Our wages in those plants are 26 percent, on the average, 
above the minimums in Honduras. 
We offer 11 paid holidays. We have paid vacations. We have free life insurance. We have a 
doctor and nurse in each one of those facilities. 
And the reference to the filtered water, when we acquired that plant, that particular plant had 
its own filtration systems, which was different from all of our other plants, which we used 
bottled water. 
We immediately had that water tested. Although there was some discoloration, it was tested as 
pure. But we immediately shut down the filtration system and went to bottled water that we 
have in the other plants. 
Now, we have paid maternity leaves, we have a breastfeeding hour, we celebrate the employee 
birthdays, in fact. And also, the — we have a children’s day. 
And that, I think, our benefits, I’m proud to tell you, I think are far and above any that you’ll find 
in most other apparel facilities throughout the world. 
And there have been no death threats. We have tried to conduct our business with honesty, 
integrity. 
And quite frankly, I’ve been with this company, I’m in my 48th year, and I would tell you that 
I’m very proud of how we operate our particular plants. 
We have met with a number of the leading universities to try to tell the other side of the story. 
We’ve invited those presidents of the universities and the administration to come to see for 
themselves what our plant facilities are like. 
And we’ve had two acceptances that were down this past week, the representatives from 
Princeton and also from the University of Arizona. 
And we welcome putting all of this into an open spotlight. We also have a website. That’s 
www.russellsocialresponsibility.com — that all of this activity that we’re responding to the 
recommendations of the Fair Labor Association is posted on that website. It’s there for the 
world to see. 
And we continue — Fair Labor Association has a three-step process of continued monitoring. 
And then they do independent audits periodically to see what our progress is. And all of that is 
posted on that website. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, John. The motion is now ready to be acted upon. (Applause) 
If there are any shareholders voting in person, they should now mark their ballots on the 
motion and allow the ballots to be delivered to the inspector of election. Miss Amick, when 
you’re ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxyholders, in response to the proxies that 
were received through last Thursday evening, cast 49,251 votes for the motion and 702,963 
votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes related 
to all Class A and Class B shares outstanding, the motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. The proposal fails. 
37. Berkshire formal meeting adjourns 
WARREN BUFFETT: Does anyone have any further business to come before this meeting, before 
we adjourn? If not, I recognize Mr. Scott to place a motion before the meeting. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that this meeting be adjourned. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? Motion to adjourn has been made and seconded. We will 
vote by voice. 
