And with our latest expansion, we have said that we will not need a rate increase till 2029 at 
the earliest. That’s thirteen years off. 
So there’ve been great benefits if you have a regulation that works with you on that, but it is a 
determination that is made at the state level. 
Now, the federal government has encouraged, in a major way, the development of renewables 
by this production tax credit, which currently amounts to about 2.3 cents per kilowatt hour. 
We would not have the renewable generation that we have if it hadn’t been for the fact that 
that building of those projects is subsidized by the federal government, because the benefits of 
reducing solar emissions are — or carbon emissions — are worldwide, and therefore it’s 
deemed proper that the citizenry as a whole should participate in subsidizing the cost of 
reducing those emissions. 
And that has encouraged — in fact, it’s allowed — things like have happened in Iowa as well. 
But the degree to which the renewables replace, primarily coal — although there’s plenty of 
emissions connected with natural gas if you trace it all the way through — will depend on 
governmental policy. 
And I think, so far, I think it’s been quite sensible in encouraging — having the cost borne by 
society as a whole, in terms of reduced tax revenues, and having the benefits, which is less CO₂, 
into the atmosphere. 
They also, broadly — you know, they’re not just limited to the people of Iowa when we build 
that. That’s a benefit that accrues to the world. 
I think you’ll see continued change. It will vary by jurisdiction. 
And we would hope — we’ve got the capital, we’ve got lots of taxes, federal taxes, paid in our 
consolidated returns — so we’re in a particularly advantageous position to take advantage of 
massive investments that companies with limited tax appetites couldn’t handle. 
I think you’ll see us be a very big player. But governmental policy is going to be, you know, the 
major driver. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I think we’re doing way more than our share of shifting to renewable 
energy, and we’re charging way lower energy prices to our utility customers than other people. 
If the whole rest of the world were behaving the way we are, it would be a much better world. 
I will say this about the subject, though, and that is that I think that the people who worry 
about climate change as the major trouble of Earth don’t have my view. 
I think that we — I like all this shifting to renewables, but I have a different reason. I want to 
conserve the hydrocarbons, because eventually, I think, we’re going to use every drop, 
humanity, for chemical feedstocks. And so I’m in their camp, but I’ve got a different reason. 
WARREN BUFFETT: One thing you’ll find — might find — kind of interesting: Nebraska has not 
done much with wind power. And maybe three miles from — two miles — from where we’re 
sitting, right across the river, people are buying their electricity cheaper, in Council Bluffs right 
across the river, than they are in Omaha. 
And yet Omaha — Nebraska is entirely a public power state, so there’s no stockholders who 
have to have any earnings, the bonds are issued on a tax-exempt basis, and yet electricity is 
considerably cheaper right across the river. 
And, you know, the wind blowing doesn’t just start at the Missouri River. I mean, it comes 
across Nebraska and that wind could be captured. And, so far, it really hasn’t. 
And the real irony is that because our electricity is so much cheaper in Iowa, you have these 
massive server farms of people like Google. It’s become a tech haven for these operations that 
just gobble up electricity. And Iowa has gotten plant after plant after plant and job after job 
after job, and increased property tax — I mean gotten more property tax revenues — and that’s 
being done — the Google server is probably seven or eight miles from here — and it’s located 
in Iowa because we have cheap wind-generated electricity. And it’s creating jobs. It’s 
fascinating. 
Nebraska has prided itself on public power. It was originated back, I believe, in the ’30s when 
George Norris was a very powerful senator here and it’s been a source of pride. But lately, it’s 
been a source of cost, too. 
15. Derivatives still a “danger to the system” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, shareholders section 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name’s Adam Bergman. 
I’m with Sterling Capital in Virginia Beach. 
In your 2008 shareholder letter, you said, “Derivatives are dangerous… They have made it 
almost impossible for investors to understand and analyze our largest commercial banks and 
investment banks.” 
So my question for you is: how do you analyze and value companies like Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch and other commercial banks that Berkshire has investments in, relative to their 
significant derivative exposures? Thanks. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, derivatives do complicate the problem very dramatically. 
Now, they are moving away to being collateralized, which helps. 
But there’s no question that if you asked me to describe the derivative position of the B of A, 
for example, I would know that they have done a conscientious job and worked hard at 
properly evaluating. 
But the great danger in derivatives is if there’s a discontinuity. If there’s not discontinuities, you 
probably don’t have much of a problem, assuming they get marked to market, and 
collateralized, and so on. 
But if the system stopped for a while — the system stopped after 9/11 for three or four days. It 
stopped at the time of World War One. They closed the New York Stock Exchange for many 
months. 
They debated closing the stock exchange, very seriously, the day after October 19, 1987. And it 
was — there were a lot of people that wanted to close it. And on that Tuesday morning, it 
looked like it was about to stop, but it continued. 
But if you had a — if you have a major cyber, nuclear, chemical, biological, attack on the 
country — which will certainly happen at some point — if you have a major discontinuity, then 
you’ll have a lot of problems, a lot of problems. 
But you will also — when things reopen — you will find there can be enormous gaps in things 
that you thought were fully protected by collateral, and that sort of thing, or netting 
arrangements, and that type of thing. 
So I regard very large derivative positions as dangerous. 
We inherited a modest- sized position at Gen Re and, in a benign market, we lost about $400 
million, just in trying to unwind it, with no pressure on us whatsoever. 
So I do think it continues to be a danger to the system. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: By the way, the accountants blessed that big derivative position as being 
worth a lot of money. They were only off, what, many hundreds of millions. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well. Charlie found one position when he was on the audit committee 
at Salomon. I think it was mismarked by $20 million. 
I actually, by happenstance, happen — I do know of one incredibly mismarked position — 
doesn’t affect any of our operations — but it almost staggers the mind to know the way that 
position is marked. And you can only come to the conclusion that some trader got somehow — 
influenced whoever did mark it, or marked it himself, heaven forbid, and probably just 
influenced someone. 
Or they didn’t know enough. Some of these things get so complicated, they are very hard to 
evaluate. That’s the kind that have the most profit in them, usually, so they were quite 
enthusiastic about those when we were at Solomon. 
They can be extraordinary hard to mark. And, like I say, I know one that’s so mismarked it 
would blow your mind. 
And, you know, the auditors, I don’t think, are necessarily capable of holding that behavior in 
check. 
It’s very interesting, because now there’s really four big auditing firms, and obviously, they’re 
auditing companies where there’s a derivative position, and they’re auditing company A that’s 
on one side of the transaction, and they’re auditing company B that’s on the other side of the 
transaction. In some cases, it’s the same auditor. 
And I will guarantee you that there’s plenty of times when the marks on what they’re attesting 
to are significantly different, which would be an interesting exercise to pursue, in terms of 
checking those numbers out. 
Derivatives are still dangerous, in large quantities, and we have — we would not do them, on a 
collateralized basis, because if there was a discontinuity, I don’t know exactly where we would 
end up, and I’m never going to get us in a position where we could have money demanded of 
us and not be able to fulfill it with ease, and with me sleeping well. 
So we won’t engage in it. We’ve got some in runoff, but so far we’ve made money and had the 
use of money for a decade or more, and it’s been very attractive for us. But that does not entice 
me, at all, into doing any derivative transactions that would involve collateral, when collateral is 
not required. 
It’s still a potential time bomb in the system. 
Anything where discontinuities — and basically that means closing up and stopping trading 
markets from functioning — anything where discontinuities can exist, can be real poison in 
markets. 
Kuwait, some years ago, went to a very delayed system on settlement of stock purchases, so 
they didn’t have to settle up for six months or thereabouts. And it caused all kinds of problems, 
because, you know, you’ve got an IOU from somebody for six months and if you got zillions of 
those, a lot of trouble can ensue. 
So I agree with your general caution. I’m not in the least troubled by our Bank of America 
investment, nor our Wells Fargo — we added to Wells Fargo — and our Bank of America 
position, right now, is a preferred stock, but we’re very likely to exercise the warrants on that. 
On the other hand, there are a great number of banks in the world. If you take the 50 largest 
banks in the world, we wouldn’t even think about probably 45 of them. Wouldn’t you say that, 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, we’re in the awkward position where I think we’ll probably make 
about $20 billion out of derivatives, and just those few contracts that you and Ajit [Jain] did 
years ago. 
All that said, we’re different from the banks. We would really prefer it if those derivatives had 
been illegal for us to buy. It would have been better for our country. 
16. Float still “useful” despite low interest rates 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: This questions relates to something that Warren briefly said earlier today. The 
question comes from Lynn Palmer, who is just finishing her freshman year at a Houston, Texas 
high school. 
“My question,” she says, “concerns the float generated by Berkshire’s insurance companies. In 
Mr. Buffett’s 2015 annual letter, he said that the large amount of float that Berkshire possesses 
allows the company to significantly increase its investment income. 
“But what happens when interest rates decline? If the U.S. were to implement negative interest 
rates in the same way that the eurozone and Japan have done, how would Berkshire be 
affected?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well some of our float actually exists in Europe, where we have the 
problem of negative interest rates on very high-grade and short-term and medium — even 
medium-term bonds — and obviously anything that reduces the value of having money is going 
to affect Berkshire, because we’re always going to have a lot of money. 
We — because we have so much capital, and so many sources of earning power, we have the 
ability, quite properly, to use our float in — to a certain degree — in ways that most insurance 
companies can’t think about. 
So we can find things to do, but sometimes we get, you know we — we’ve got fifty-odd billion 
of short-term government securities now, and we’re going to get another $8.3 billion, in all 
likelihood, early in June when our Kraft Heinz preferred is called, so we’ll be back over 60 billion 
again very soon. 
So we’ve got 60 billion out, that’s out at, say, a quarter of 1 percent. Well, the difference 
between a quarter of 1 percent and minus a quarter of 1 percent, you know, is not that great. I 
mean, it’s almost as painful to have 60 million out at a quarter of a percent, as to have it out at 
a negative rate. 
Float is not worth as much to insurance companies now as it was 10 years ago or 15 years ago. 
And that’s true at Berkshire. I think it’s worth considerably more to us than it is to the typical 
insurance company, because I think we have a broader range of options as to what to do with 
it. 
But there’s no question about it, that having a lot of money around now is not just a problem 
for insurance companies. It’s a problem for retirees. It’s a problem for anybody that’s stuck with 
fixed-dollar investments and finds that their income now is a pittance or, you know, in Europe, 
perhaps a negative rate. And that was not something in their calculation at all 15 years ago. 
We love the idea, however, of increasing our float. I mean that money has been very useful to 
us over time. 
It’s useful to us today, even under present conditions, and it’s likely to be very useful to us in 
the future. It’s shown as a liability, but it’s actually a huge asset. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add. 
WARREN BUFFETT: He’s now in full swing. (Laughter) 
17. We still love BNSF despite falling coal shipments 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We can’t hear you. 
JONATHAN BRANDT: Testing. The railroad industry seems, right now, to be suffering from 
exposure to some of the weakest parts of the economy, with volume declines of varying 
magnitudes in coal, oil, sand, and metals. Even intermodal, usually a steady source of growth, 
has been relatively weak of late. 
How much of the weakness is cyclical, how much is secular? 
In the last 15 months, the other western railroad’s market capitalization is down by 30 — 35 
percent — as projections of future growth have come down. 
Is your estimate of BNSF’s intrinsic value down by a material amount during the same period, or 
is your view of the value of BNSF’s irreplaceable network unaffected by these short-term 
wiggles? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I would — certainly the decline in coal — which is a very important 
commodity — it’s about 20 percent of revenues — that’s secular. 
Now, there’s other factors that may cause the line of decline to jiggle around. We had a very 
mild winter, and we went into the winter with utilities carrying unusual amounts of coal. 
And ironically, part of the reason for that was that our service the year before had been bad 
and they’d gotten low on coal, so then they compensated by bringing in more than they 
needed, just to catch up. And because the weather was mild, electricity use was poor in the 
winter time. And so they continue, at this point, to have considerably more coal on hand than 
they would like. 
So they are not only — they’re trying to under order what they will be using, and that has a 
little effect. But the decline in coal, for sure, is secular. And at 20 percent of revenues, that’s a 
significant factor. 
But — and it’s true that the market, generally, got very enthused about railroad stocks a year or 
two ago, so they sold up a lot. And now that people have seen that car loadings are down and 
earnings are down, in some places, that equity valuations have come down. 
We don’t — we love the fact we own BNSF. We think we bought it at an attractive price. We’d 
love to be able to buy a second thing exactly like it at that price. We’d do it in a second. We’d 
even pay a little bit more, probably. 
But we don’t mark up, and down, our wholly-owned businesses, based on stock market 
valuations. 
Obviously, stock market valuations are some factor in our thinking, but we are not marking our 
wholly-owned businesses to market because we know we’re going to hold them forever. And 
we regard BNSF as a very good business to hold forever. 
But it will it will lose coal volume and, you know, it may lose in other areas, but it will gain in 
other areas. It’s a terrific and valuable asset, and it will learn a lot of money this year, but it 
won’t earn as much money as it earned last year. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add. 
18. Don’t envy people making money from risky behavior 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Warren. Hi, Warren and Charlie. Great to see you. This is Cora and Dan 
Chen from Taulguard Investments of Los Angeles. 
This annual meeting reminds me of the magical world of Hogwarts, of Harry Potter. This arena 
is our Hogwarts. Warren, you are our Headmaster and Professor Dumbledore. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I haven’t read Harry Potter, but I’ll take it as a compliment. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Charlie is our Headmaster Snape, direct, and full of integrity. 
The magic of long-term, concentrated, value investing is real, yet similar to Harry Potter, the 
rest of the world doesn’t believe we exist. 
Your letter to me has changed my life. Your “Secret Millionaire’s Club” has changed my 
children’s life. They go to class chatting about investing. 
My question is for my children watching at home today and the children in the audience. 
How should they look at stocks, when every day in the media they see companies that have 
never made a dime in their life go IPO? 
They’re dilutive and they see a lot of very short-term spin. The cycle is getting shorter and 
shorter. 
How should they view stocks, and what’s your message for them? 
Finally, Cora and I would love to thank you in person and shake your hand personally today. I’ll 
repeat what I said last year: thank you for putting — setting — the seeds for my generation to 
sit in the shade, and for my children’s generation to sit in the shade with the “Secret 
Millionaire’s Club.” 
I truly walk amongst giants. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Would you mind repeating the whole thing? (Laughter) 
“The Secret Millionaire’s Club,” we want to give great credit to Andy Heyward on that. I think it 
has helped — I know it’s helped — thousands and thousands of children and Andy — it was 
Andy’s idea — and it grows in strength. 
And having young children learn good lessons, in terms of handling money, and making 
friendships, and just generally behaving as better citizens is a great objective, and Andy makes 
it easy for them to do. So, on his behalf, I accept your comments. 
You don’t really have to worry about, you know, what’s going on in IPOs, or people making 
money. 
People win lotteries every day, but there’s no reason to have that effect you at all. You 
shouldn’t be jealous about it. 
I mean, you know, if they want to do mathematically unsound things, and one of them 
occasionally gets lucky, and they put the one person on television, and the million that 
contributed to the winnings, with the big slice taken out for the state, you know, don’t get on 
— it’s nothing to worry about. 
Just, all you have to do is figure out what makes sense. And you don’t — you look at buying — 
when you — when you buy a stock, you get yourself in the mental frame of mind that you’re 
buying a business, and if you don’t look at a quote on it for five years, that’s fine. 
You don’t get a quote on your farm every day or every week or every month. You don’t get it on 
your apartment house, if you own one. If you own a McDonald’s franchise, you don’t get a 
quote every day. 
You know, you want to look at your stocks as businesses, and think about their performance as 
businesses. Think about what you pay for them, as you would think about buying a business. 
And let the rest of the world go its own way. You don’t want to get into a stupid game just 
because it’s available. 
And I’m going to say a little more about that close to the break. But with that, I’ll turn it over to 
Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, well, I think that your children are right to look for people they can 
trust in dealing with stocks and bonds. 
Unfortunately, more than half the time, they will fail, in a conventional answer. So you — they 
really have to — they have a hard problem. If you just listen to your elders, they’ll lie to you and 
make — spread — a lot of folly. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But they really have an easy problem, in the sense that American business, 
as a whole, is going to do fine over time. So the only way they can — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But not the average client of a stock broker. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we’ll get to that later. (Laughs) 
The stockbroker will do fine. The — (laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes, that’s true. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But, they don’t have to do that and we can talk — I’d rather address that 
just a little later. 
But — just — you don’t want to worry — you don’t want to be — a lot of problems are, as 
Charlie would say, are caused by envy. You don’t want to get envious of somebody who’s won 
the lottery, or bought an IPO that went up. You have to figure out what makes sense and follow 
your own course. 
19. Nevada utility customers shouldn’t have to subsidize solar power 
WARREN BUFFETT: Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from a shareholder named Lisa Kang Le (PH) in Singapore. 
And this has to do with NV Energy’s issue with solar energy in Nevada. 
“Can the chairman help his environmentally conscious shareholders understand why NV Energy 
has lobbied for new rules in Nevada that make it prohibitive for households to use solar 
energy? Is there a good reason that we haven’t yet heard about? 
“And can the chairman or vice chairman share their views on whether there’s a need to 
implement an environmental, social, and governance policy, on Berkshire investments going 
forward? 
“I understand that Berkshire Hathaway typically lets the underlying operating companies and 
CEOs manage their own policies autonomously, but should Berkshire’s board influence better 
environmental protection policies going forward?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the public utility and the pricing policies and everything in Nevada, as 
well as other places, but they’re determined by a public utility commission. So, there are, I 
believe, three commissioners that decide what’s proper. 
The situation in Nevada is that, in terms of rooftop power, was that for the last few years, if you 
had a solar project on your roof, you could sell back excess power you generated to the grid at 
a price that was far, far, far above what we, as a utility, could buy it for elsewhere. 
So, you could sell it back, we’ll say, at roughly 10 cents a kilowatt hour. And about 17,000 — 
maybe a few more now — about 17,000 people had rooftop installations. 
Now they get — there were federal credits involved, but those usually got sold to other people, 
in terms of tax credits. 
So they were being subsidized by the federal government, and that encouraged solar 
generation, as it’s encouraged us to do solar generation and wind generation, as well. 
But the people who had these 17,000 rooftop installations were selling back to the grid at 10 
cents, roughly, a kilowatt hour, energy we could purchase or produce — either — but purchase 
elsewhere, too — for 3 1/2 cents, or thereabouts. 
So, 99 percent of our consumers were being asked to subsidize the 1 percent that had solar 
units, by paying them a significantly — triple the market price, basically — of what we could 
otherwise buy electricity to sell to the 99 percent. 
So then it’s just a question of whether you wish to have the 99 percent subsidize the 1 percent. 
And the public utility commission in Nevada, they had originally let this small amount of rooftop 
solar generation be allowed as an experiment with this 10 cent, roughly 10 cent, rebate. 
And they decided that they did not believe that the 99 percent should be subsidizing the 1 
percent. 
There may — there’s no question — that for solar to be competitive, just like wind, it needs 
subsidization. Costs are not yet at a level where it becomes competitive with natural gas, for 
example. 
And who pays the subsidy gets to be a real question, if you want to encourage people to use 
renewables. 
And, in general, the federal government has done it through tax subsidies, which means 
taxpayers, generally, throughout the country subsidize it. 
And the public utility commission in Nevada decided that after seeing this experiment, they 
decided that it was not right for a million — well over a million — customers to be buying 
electricity at a price that subsidized the 17,000 people, and therefore increase the prices of 
electricity for the million. 
And that question of who subsidizes renewables, and how much, is, you know, going to be a 
political question for a long time to come. 
And I personally think that if society is the one that’s benefiting from the lack of — reduction of 
— greenhouse gases, that society should pick up the tab. 
And I don’t think that somebody sitting in a house in someplace in Nevada, we’ll call it Las 
Vegas, but it could be other cities because we serve most of Nevada, should be picking up the 
subsidy for their neighbor, and the public utility commission agrees with that. 
I think we have Greg Abel here who — NV Energy is a subsidiary of Mid-American — of 
Berkshire Hathaway Energy. 
Greg, was there anything you want to add? Can we get a spotlight down here? Maybe? 
It’s not live. 
GREG ABEL: I think it’s on now. 
So, as usual Warren, you summarized it extremely well. When we think of Nevada, it’s exactly 
as you described. I would just add a few things. 
One: as you’ve touched on earlier, we absolutely support renewables. So we start with the 
fundamental concept that we are for solar. But, as you highlighted, we want to purchase 
renewable energy at the market rate, not at a heavily subsidized rate that 1 percent of the 
customers will benefit from and harm the other 99 percent. 
And it goes back to being as fundamental as this: if you take, as you touched on, a working 
family in Nevada who can’t afford the roof top unit and you ask him, “Do you want to subsidize 
your neighbor, that 1 percent?” the answer is clearly no. 
At the same time, we’re absolutely committed to Nevada utilizing renewable resources, and 
absolutely proud of what our team’s doing. By 2019, we will have eliminated or retired 76 
percent of our coal units and be replacing it with solar energy. So we’re on a great path there. 
Thank you. (Applause) 
And we’re just going to encourage our team. And with the work of the commission, and 
obviously led by the state, we’ll head down a great path. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, if the projectionist would put up slide 7, it will give you a view of what 
the situation is. 
This counts all of our all our Berkshire Hathaway Energy operations, and you can see, in a 20-
year period we’ll have a 57 percent reduction. 
You wouldn’t want a 100 percent reduction tomorrow. Believe me, the lights would be off all 
over the country. But it’s moving at a fast pace. 
But, you do — you want to be sure that you treat fairly the people involved in this, because 
somebody pays the cost of electric generation. 
And I do think that if you’re doing something that’s to benefit the planet — and it’s important 
that it be done — but that you have the cost be assessed for that, not on a specific person 
who’s having trouble, perhaps, making ends meet in their job. 
And obviously, if you’ve got over a million customers in Nevada, a lot of them are struggling. A 
lot of them are going fine, too. But they are not the ones, in my view, to subsidize the person 
who could afford to put the solar unit in. 
20. We don’t buy or sell based on commodity price predictions 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Cliff? 
CLIFF GALLANT: Over the past year we’ve learned — perhaps I’ve learned — that Berkshire’s 
results are more influenced by oil markets than I previously appreciated. Revenues at the 
railway company and some of Berkshire’s manufacturing businesses were negatively impacted. 
And arguably, low gas prices hurt GEICO’s loss ratio. 
Yet during this year, Berkshire invested in Phillips 66, Kinder Morgan, and even PCP has 
revenues associated with the oil and gas industries. 
I know Berkshire wouldn’t make a bet on a commodity like oil, but is Berkshire making a 
statement about the long-term outlook for oil? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Making a statement about what? 
CLIFF GALLANT: Oil. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The price? The price of oil? 
CLIFF GALLANT: Yes. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. We haven’t the faintest idea what the long-term price of oil was and 
there’s always a better system available. 
You can buy oil, as you know, for delivery a year from now, or two years from now, or three 
years from now. We actually did that once, Charlie, didn’t we? Some years back. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Cashed it in too soon, too. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We made money but we could have made a lot more money. 
We don’t think we can predict commodity prices. We don’t hedge cocoa or sugar (inaudible). 
We do some forward buying of chocolate coatings or something of the sort. 
But basically, we are not two fellows who think we can predict the price of soybeans or corn or 
oil or anything else. 
So, anything you have seen in our investment transactions — some of those securities you 
mentioned there were bought by Todd or Ted, and one was bought by me — but neither they 
nor I bought those, or if we sell them, sell them, based on commodity price predictions. 
We don’t know how to do it. And we’re thinking about other things when we make those 
decisions. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’m even more ignorant than you are. 
WARREN BUFFETT: That would be hard to beat. (Laughs) 
OK. I think that’s the first time I’ve heard him say that. It has a nice ring to it. (Laughter) 
21. Don’t expect efficiency in higher education 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, station 5. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi Warren. Hi Charlie. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Ken Martin. I’m an MBA student from the Tuck School at Dartmouth. 
My question is about college tuition and the problem of rising student debt balances. 
In the past, prominent philanthropists have founded institutions that are now prominent 
research universities in our country. Why is this not a bigger part of today’s philanthropic 
debate, the founding of new colleges? Would not new supply in higher education be at least 
part of the solution to this problem? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, you want to tackle that one? You’re more of an expert than I am. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think that if you expect a lot of efficiency — financial efficiency — in 
American higher education, you’re howling at the wind. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well. I think he’s also talking about just more philanthropy to deliver there. 
Am I right? 
Want to give him the light back on there? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, that’s right. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: What’s the question again? 
WARREN BUFFETT: The question about is — maybe — whether more philanthropy ought to be 
devoted to that relatively because of the cost. But — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I do a lot more than Warren does in this field — (laughs) — and I am 
frequently disappointed but — (Laughter) 
Monopoly has kind of — and bureaucracy — have kind of pernicious effects everywhere, and 
the universities aren’t exempted from it. 
But of course, they are the glory of civilization, and if people want to give more to it, why, I’m 
all for it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, it — you know, you’ve got the option of very good state schools and 
— we spend a lot of money on education in this country. 
You know, if you just take — you take kindergarten through twelve, it’s interesting. People talk 
about entitlements in this country. They say it’s terrible we have all these entitlements for 
Social Security and everything. 
We have entitlements for the young. We spend $600 billion a year educating 50 million kids in 
the public schools between kindergarten and twelfth grade, and just think what that is as an 
entitlement. 
Nobody ever seems to bring that up. But it’s a huge — and I believe in it, obviously, but — you 
know, the people in their working ages, generally speaking, I think have an — in a rich society 
— have an obligation to both the young and the old. 
And based on the amount we spend, if we have problems with our school system it’s not 
because we’re cheap. No, there are other problems that contribute to it. In terms of the money 
we put out, we’re right up there. (Applause) 
But I was the trustee of a college that saw the endowment go from $8 million to over a billion. 
And I didn’t see the tuition come down. And I didn’t see the number of students go up. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing went up, except the professors’ salaries. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. From 8 million to a billion. I mean — and very, very decent people 
running the place. 
But when you read the figures on endowment of the big schools, you know, and some of them 
have really got up in the big numbers, the main objective of the people running the endowment 
is to have the endowment grow larger. And that will be ever thus. That is the way humans 
operate. 
You have any more comments on that, Charlie? You’ve seen a lot. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve made all the enemies I can afford at the moment. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. (Laughter.) 
That’s never slowed him down in the past. (Laughter) 
22. Berkshire will “do fine” if Trump or Clinton wins 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew. 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Thank you, Warren. This from a shareholder who asked to remain 
anonymous. 
“If Donald Trump becomes the president of the United States, and recognizing your public 
criticism of him and your public support for Hillary Clinton, what specific risks, regulatory, 
policy, or otherwise, do you foresee for Berkshire Hathaway’s portfolio of businesses? 
WARREN BUFFETT: That won’t be the main problem. (Laughter and applause) 
Well. Government, you know, is a very big factor in our business and in all businesses. I mean, 
there’s the very broad policies that affect practically everybody, and sometimes there can be 
some pretty specific policies. 
But, I will predict that if Don — either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton becomes president — 
and one of them is likely to be — very likely to be — I think Berkshire will continue to do fine. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’m afraid to get into this area. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We’ve operated under all — I mean, we’ve operated under price 
controls. I mean, there — 
We’ve had 52 percent federal taxes applied to our earnings for many years. Even high — I 
mean, they were higher at other times — but there — you know, we’ve had regulations come 
along and, in the end, business in this country has done extraordinarily well for a couple of 
hundred years, and it was adapted to the society and the society has adapted to business. 
This is a remarkably attractive place in which to conduct a business. Imagine, in a world of 
practically zero interest rates, you know, American business earning terrific returns on tangible 
cap — equity. I mean, those are the assets that were actually employed in the business. The 
numbers are staggering. 
And, you know, people who have had their money in savings accounts or something like that 
get destroyed. 
But owners of business, if you look at returns on tangible equity, just check them out some 
time, and they have not suffered even as people who own fixed-interest — fixed-income — 
instruments have suffered enormously. 
And, you know, farm prices are down now. Farmer income has fallen off a lot in the last couple 
of years. 
But business has managed to take care of itself. And for a good reason, because it contributes 
to, and has been the engine of, our market economy that’s delivered output that is staggering 
by the imagination of anyone that might have existed 100 years ago. 
In my lifetime, the GDP per capita, in real terms, of the United States, has gone up six-for-one. 
Can you imagine a society where in one person’s lifetime, overall, people have six times the real 
output that they had at the beginning. 
It’s — you know, the system works very well in terms of aggregate output. In terms of 
distribution of that output, sometimes it can fall very short, in my view. But, it’ll keep working. 
You don’t have to worry about that. 
Twenty years from now, they’ll be far more output per capita in the United States, in real 
terms, than there is now. In 50 years, it will be far more. It’ll — and the quality will get better. 
And no presidential candidate or president is going to end that. They can shape it in ways that 
are good or bad, but they can’t end it. 
Now Charlie, give something pessimistic here to balance me out. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, I want to say something optimistic. 
I think that the GDP figures greatly understate the real advantage that our system has given our 
citizens. It underweighs a lot of huge achievements because they don’t translate right into 
money in a certain way that the economists can easily handle. 
But the real achievements over the last century, say, are way higher than are indicated by the 
GDP figures, and the GDP figures are good. 
I don’t think the future is necessarily going to be quite as a good as the past. But it doesn’t have 
to be. 
WARREN BUFFETT: There’s no one you’ll run into, at least in my experience, that says, “With my 
same talents, I wish I’d lived 50 years ago instead.” Born 50 years earlier. 
But a majority of the American public thinks that it’s a bad time to be born today compared to 
when they were born. They think their children will not — they’re wrong. I mean, it’s — the 
pace of innovation — just think how different you’re living compared to 20 years ago, in terms 
of what you do with your time. 
Now, a lot of people may condemn it, or something of the sort, but you’re making free choices 
that were not available to you 20 years ago and you’re making them in a different direction 
than — 
I’m still staying with the landline, but you people are way ahead of me. (Laughs). 
23. BNSF CEO doesn’t see rail mergers in near future 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Gregg? 
GREGG WARREN: Warren. Late last year we saw Canadian Pacific make a hostile bid for Norfolk 
Southern, a combination that would have linked Canada’s second largest carrier with one of the 
two largest railroads in the eastern U.S. 
This move led to a largely negative reaction from not only Norfolk Southern, but from federal 
and state lawmakers, shippers, and other railroad operators, even though a formal evaluation 
process hadn’t even begun with the U.S. Surface Transportation Board. Canadian Pacific 
eventually backed down. 
Looking back to 1999, when the Transportation Board blocked a proposed merger between 
BNSF and Canadian National, the attitude was that any additional mergers amongst railroads 
would have to be accretive to competition. 
What do you think they meant by this? And if one believes that the hookup of one of the two 
major western railroads with one of the two eastern railroads would not alter the current 
landscape, where most shippers have just two choices amongst the large railroads operating in 
the region, and could actually generate efficiencies and cost savings that could be passed along 
to customers, how does a combination of someone like BNSF with Norfolk Southern or CSX not 
satisfy their goal? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I — I think now there’s — and is Matt Rose, is he here? He can probably 
answer that — some of that — better than I can — certainly. He can answer all of it better than 
I can. 
