AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, hi. I’m James Halperin from Dallas, Texas. And I’ve been a 
shareholder since 1995. And I feel great about it, so thank you. 
This question has to do with Berkshire’s so-called permanent holdings and whether, when 
making investment decisions, you somehow mathematically calculate a value to Berkshire’s 
reputation for loyalty to its public investees. 
Let’s say you are confident enough that Pepsi or Procter and Gamble would grow cash flow 
faster than Coke or Gillette would. And that the replacement value of the stock was less 
expensive enough to more than make up for the taxes. 
Would you then sell Coke, for example, to buy Pepsi? And if not, why not? And how do you 
value this reputation for loyalty aspect in those decisions? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think that’s a very good question. 
I don’t think we would ever — I think it’s very unlikely we would come to the conclusion that 
we were that certain that — you mentioned P&G and Pepsi versus the ones — but that some 
major consumer products company would do better than the ones we’re in. 
We might very well decide that some other one is going to do quite well and buy that 
additionally. 
As a practical matter, if I’m on the board of a company, or Charlie were to be, representing 
Berkshire, it’s very difficult — I would say it’s almost impossible for us to trade in their 
securities. 
It just — it creates too many problems. People would think we knew something we didn’t. Or, 
you know, particularly if we were selling it, you know, we would have people questioning very 
much whether we had detected something within the company that was not available to the 
rest of the world. 
So we really give up an enormous amount of investment mobility when we go on a board. 
And so I don’t even think about doing what you’re suggesting, although I might very well if I 
were just a money manager running the business. 
We certainly, and we’ve laid it out in the ground rules in the back of the — in our Owner’s 
Manual back in the annual report — we’ve certainly said, in terms of businesses we buy control 
of, that they just aren’t for sale. And a fancy price will not tempt us. 
And that we lay out that exception relating to businesses where we think there’s a permanent 
loss of cash for as far as the eye can see, or businesses where we have labor troubles, which we 
— I described earlier in the day, we might’ve had at The Buffalo News at that one period. 
But otherwise, simply because we can use the money better someplace else, we’re not 
interested in it. 
You know, I can’t really dig into my psyche and tell you how much of that is because I think that 
will help us buy businesses in the future if we behave that way, or how much is just my natural 
inclination that when I make a deal with somebody and I’m happy with how they behave with 
me, that I want to stick with them. It’s probably both, you know? 
And I wouldn’t want to try and weight the two. I’m happy, you know, with the results of the 
first and I’m happy with the way I feel, essentially, about the second. 
I just think it’s crazy — I know if I owned all of Berkshire myself, I wouldn’t dream of trading 
around businesses with people that have trusted in me and that I like and have been more than 
fair with me. 
I wouldn’t dream of trading around businesses so that my estate was 105 percent of some very 
large number instead of 100 percent of some large number. I just would regard that as a crazy 
way to live. 
And I don’t want the fact I run a public company to cause me to behave in a way that I would be 
uncomfortable behaving if we were a private company. 
But I also feel that you, as shareholders, are entitled to know that that’s an idiosyncrasy of 
mine. And therefore, I lay it out, and have laid it out for 20 years, as something that you should 
understand, as an investor or before you become an investor. 
I’m sure it helps us in acquisitions over time. But whether that in any way compensations the 
opportunity costs that Charlie talks about of making an occasional advantageous disposal, I 
don’t know and it’s something I’ll never calculate. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I do tend to calculate it, at least roughly. And so far, I think that the 
loyalty effect is a plus in our life. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Would you regard that as true though in both public — I mean, both 
marketable securities and owned businesses? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh, no. I don’t think the loyalty effect in lots of public companies is nearly as 
important as it is with the private companies. 
WARREN BUFFETT: You can say it’s a mistake for us to be directors of companies, because we 
give up huge amount of flexibility in investment because we are directors. I — and there’s no 
question that we do. 
It’s — if you’re thinking solely of making money, you do not want to be a director of any 
company. So there’s just no question about that. 
27. Confidence that Berkshire’s culture will endure 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Tom Harrison (PH) from Claremore, Oklahoma. Good afternoon, 
gentlemen. And thanks for a wonderful weekend. 
This question’s for Mr. Buffett. Being somewhat pessimistic by nature, I have a recurrent 
nightmare of a Wall Street Journal headline proclaiming, “Buffett kicks bucket.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: They may phrase it a little more elegantly than that — (laughter) — but 
someday, the headline will be there. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And, of course, Charlie’s no spring chicken either. (Laughter) 
In light of these concerns, could you please go into a little more detail than that presented in 
your annual report regarding the succession issue? And my apologies for the morbid nature of 
the question. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, there’s no reason to apologize. I mean, it’s a question I ask our 
managers, incidentally, every couple of years. 
I — about every two years, I send them a letter and I say, you know, “If you die tonight, what 
will you — what will I wish you had told me tomorrow morning?” You know, because I have to 
make that same decision and I’m not conversing with them every night. 
So I want them to put in writing to me, once every couple of years, what they think about the 
subject, who they think should succeed them, or whether there are several candidates, or what 
the strengths and weaknesses are. And I have that information available. 
And, you know, you’re entitled to the same sort of answer about succession. It’s a part of 
buying into this business. 
And it — I can tell you that no one has more of an interest in it than I do. And Charlie has a 
similar interest, because, we have a very high percentage of our net worth in the business. 
Plus, we’ve got a lifetime of effort in the business. And we want it to succeed for both, in our 
cases probably, at least my case, the ultimate reward, the foundation I have. 
But also because we just want — we like what’s happened so far and we want to prove that it 
can — it’s not dependent upon a couple of guys like us, but that it can be institutionalized, in 
effect. 
And we have, and Charlie and I, we know who will succeed me in what are likely to be two jobs, 
one marketable securities and one business operations. 
We want to be very sure that the culture is maintained. And I think it’s so strong that I think it’d 
be very hard to change it. 
But in addition, the stock ownership situation with me is such that it can — if there were any 
inclination to change it, it can be prevented from happening. I don’t think it would, anyway. 
Now, in terms of who succeeds me, that depends when I die. I — and there’s no sense telling 
you who it would be today. There’d be no plus to that, and it might not be the same 20 years 
from now. 
I mean, 20 years ago, it would’ve been Charlie, obviously. But it won’t be Charlie now because 
of his age. And it’ll be somebody else. 
But 20 years from now or 15 years from now it might be some third party. But we’ve got —we 
feel very good about the succession situation. 
We feel very good about the stability of the organization, in terms of the stock ownership 
situation, because that is insured for a very, very long time to come. We couldn’t feel better 
about the managers we have in place and the culture we have in place. And, you know, the 
individual will be named. 
I think I’ve mentioned, though, that when they open that envelope — all of the contents of that 
envelope are already known to the key people — but when they open that envelope, the first 
instruction is, you know, take my pulse again. (Laughter) 
But if I flunk that test, there will be somebody very good in place. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: The main defense, of course, is to have assets that will do well, more or less, 
automatically. And we have a lot of those. 
And to the extent you improve that further by having very good managers in place and very 
good individualized systems for bringing new managers into the places, there’s a lot of 
momentum here that would go on very nicely with the present management gone. 
And now, I don’t think our successors are going to be as good as Warren at actually — 
(applause) — allocating the money. (Louder applause and laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: No, we ran a little test case 10 years ago because for nine months and four 
days, I took another job at Salomon. And things went fine at Berkshire. 
We’ve got — the managers don’t need me. We have to allocate capital. We have to make sure 
they’re treated fairly. And — 
But we are not making decisions around the place, except in the allocation of capital. And that 
will be important. But some of that is semiautomatic. And others, you know, it does require, 
you know, some imagination sometime or something of the sort. 
But for nine months and four days in 1991, you know, Salomon was primarily on my mind and 
Berkshire wasn’t. And everything went on just as before. And we are far, far, far stronger now 
than we were 10 years ago. 
So I’m very comfortable with 99 percent of my estate being in Berkshire shares. And I think it’s 
an intelligent holding, eventually, for the foundation. And knowing that, you know, I won’t be 
around at some point before the foundation gets it. 
28. “We don’t want to talk about silver” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, area 8. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger. My name’s Matt Ahner (PH). I’m from 
Tucson, Arizona. It’s a tremendous pleasure to be here today. 
This question probably falls into Charlie Munger’s realm of oddball investment activities. 
But considering Berkshire’s previous experience in silver, what are your thoughts on the silver 
market today? How do you analyze this market? Have you determined an equilibrium price for 
silver? And if so, would you share that price, or explain to us how you determined it? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: The short answer is we don’t want to talk about silver. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We’re not going to comment, you know, on oil or the prices of 
anything in terms of making any forecasts about it. 
The equilibrium price though I can tell you is whatever it’s selling for today. But there will be a 
different equilibrium price a year from now or five years from now. But we can’t tell you what 
it’ll be. 
29. Electricity deregulation led to damaging shortages 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 1. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger. My name’s Bob Odem (PH) from Seattle, 
Washington. 
Considering the political climate, and what seems to be a more regulated environment than not 
in the electric utilities market, and politicians that seem to be pacifying their constituents rather 
than the common sense of price and quantity — 
Is it not a risky venture to participate in these markets more than what has already been done 
with MidAmerican, considering that, even with a possible repeal of the PUHCA laws, that they 
may be reinstated some years later, with the addition or subtraction of any other legislation 
that a politician may dream up, and then put the investment at risk? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, you’re a resident of California. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, the production of electricity, of course, is an enormous business. And 
it’s not going away. 
And the thought that there might be something additional that we might do in that field is not 
at all inconceivable. It’s a very fundamental business. 
Now, you’re certainly right in that we have an unholy mess, in California, in terms of electricity. 
And again, it reflects, I would say, a fundamental flaw in the education system of the country, 
that is many smart people of all kinds, utility executives, governors, legislators, journalistic 
leaders, they have difficulty recognizing that the most important thing with a power system is 
to have a surplus of capacity. 
Is that a very difficult concept? (Laughter) 
You know, everybody understands that if you’re building a bridge, you don’t want a bridge that 
will handle exactly 20,000 pounds and no more. 
You want a bridge that’ll handle a lot more than the maximum likely load. And that margin of 
safety is enormously important in bridge building. 
Well, a power system is a similar thing. Now, why do all these intelligent people, you know, 
ignore the single most obvious and important factor and just screw it up to a fare-thee-well? 
So I’m giving you a response which is, of course, another question. As the — my old professor 
used to say, “Let me know what your problem is and I’ll try and make it more difficult for you.” 
(Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, to me, the interesting thing is that you had a system — I mean, 
Charlie’s obviously right in that you’ve got about three goals in terms of — from a societal 
standpoint — you’ve got perhaps three goals in what you would like your electric utility 
business to be. 
One is you would like it to be reasonably efficiently operated. 
Secondly, since it does tend to have, in many situations, monopoly characteristics, you would 
want something that produced a fair return, but not a great return for capital. But enough to 
attract capital. 
And then third, you’d want this margin of safety, this ample supply. 
Now, when you’ve got a long lead time to creation of supply, which is the nature of putting on 
generation capacity, you have to have a system that rewards people for fulfilling that obligation 
to have extra capacity around. 
A regulated system does that. If you give people a return on the capital employed, if they keep 
a little too much capital employed so that they have this margin of safety on generation, and 
they get paid for it, they stay ahead of the curve. They always have 15 or 20 percent more 
generating capacity than needed. 
And one of the disadvantages of that regulation and the monopoly nature is that it doesn’t 
have the spur to efficiency. They try to build it in various ways, but it’s difficult to have a spur to 
great efficiency if somebody can get a return on any capital they spend. 
So utility regulators have always been worried about somebody just building any damn thing 
and getting whatever the state-allowed return is. 
But I would say that the problems that would arise from, say, a little bit of sloppy management 
are nothing compared to the problems that arise from inadequate generation. 
So here you have in California — my view as an outsider — you had a situation under regulation 
where the utilities had the incentive to have a little extra generating capacity because they got 
allowed to earn a decent return on it, a return that would attract capital. 
Then you had, I think, the forced sell-off of half of their generating capacity or something like 
that. And they sold it at multiples of book value to a bunch of people who were now just 
generators who were deregulated. 
They’ve got — they don’t have an interest in having too much supply. They’ve got an interest in 
having too little supply. 
So you’ve totally changed the equation because the fellow that now has the deregulated asset, 
for which he paid three times book, now has to earn a return on a three times book what the 
fellow was formally earning under the regulated environment at one times book. 
And so, he is not going to build extra generating capacity. That — all that does is it brings down 
the price of electricity. You know, he hopes things are tight. 
So you’ve created, in my view, a situation where the interests of the companies in the business 
have diverged in a significant way from the interests of society. And I — it just doesn’t make 
any sense to me. And I really think that the old system made more societal sense. 
Let people earn a good return, not a great return, but a return that attracts capital, on an 
investment that has built into it the incentives to keep ahead of the game on capacity because 
you can’t fine tune it that carefully. And you do have this long lead time, so. 
Now, what you do with the scrambled eggs now, you know, is something. And with all the 
political forces back and forth, I think that you’d better have a system that encourages building 
extra capacity. 
Because you don’t know how much rainfall there will be in the Pacific Northwest and, 
therefore, how much hydro will be available. And you don’t know what natural gas prices will 
do. And therefore, you know, whether it’s advantageous for a gas-fired turbine to be operating. 
And it — the old system really strikes me as somewhat better than this semi-deregulated 
environment that we’ve more or less stumbled into. 
But Charlie, what do you think on that? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Of course, even the old system got in some troubles in that since everybody 
had the NIMBY syndrome — “Not In My Back Yard” — everybody wanted any new power plant 
to be anyplace not near me. 
And if everybody feels that way, and if the political system means that the obstructionists are 
always going to rule, which is true in some places in terms of zoning and other matters, you get 
in deep trouble. 
If you let the unreasonable, self-centered people make all the decisions of that kind, you may 
well get so you just run out of power. That was a mistake. 
And we may make that mistake with oil refineries. It is — you know, we haven’t had many new, 
big oil refineries in the last, well, period. So you may get to do this all over again. 
WARREN BUFFETT: All of that being said, there will be need for more generation capacity. I 
mean, the electric utility industry will be — will grow. It will need lots of capital. 
And there should be ways to participate in that where we get reasonable returns on capital. We 
would not expect to get great returns on capital. But we would, you know, we would be happy 
to do that. We generate a lot of capital and we would be comfortable in that business. 
We would not feel the risks were undue, as long as we didn’t go around paying incredible prices 
for somebody else’s capacity and then have people get very upset at what that meant in terms 
of their electric rates. You can’t go out and — 
If you’ve got a utility plant in this country that was put in place at X and then you go out and 
encourage entrepreneurs to buy in at 3X, you cannot expect utility prices — electricity prices — 
to fall. And that was, in my view, a very basic mistake. I may not understand it fully. 
30. Can a good business make up for bad management? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 2. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon. My name is Pavel Begun. I am from Minsk, Belarus. And I 
have two questions. 
And before I’ll have questions for you, I’d like to say thank you for recommending to read 
“Intelligent Investor.” It’s a terrific book and it reshaped me tremendously, literally, overnight. 
So I’d like to thank you for that. 
And now the question. Say I’m an owner of the business. And the business has a durable 
competitive advantage and superior business model and is run by able people. 
And then, you know, I start noticing that, basically, management starts doing things which are 
far from intelligent. 
So what should I do as an owner, as an investor? Should I try to tell them how they should run 
the business? Or should I just sit back and do nothing because superior business model should 
overcome poor management? That’s the first question. 
And the second question is, how important is nominal experience in the business of investing? 
And by saying nominal, I mean the number of — the actual time you’ve been in the business, as 
opposed to real experience that also includes experience you acquire from, say, Ben Graham, or 
you, or Peter Lynch, when you read books? So those are the questions. 
WARREN BUFFETT: On your first question, did you assume that you had control of the business, 
or you just owned a marketable security? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, if I own, say, 20 percent of marketable securities. 
WARREN BUFFETT: All right. Well, the situation you described is not hypothetical, in the first 
case. (Laughter) 
And I would say that the history that Charlie and I have had of persuading decent, intelligent 
people, who we thought were doing unintelligent things, to change their course of action has 
been poor. 
Would you agree with that, Charlie, or no? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Worse than poor. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) 
So I would say that if you really think you’re in with people that have got a good business, but 
they’re going to keep doing dumb things with your money, you’ll probably do better to get out 
and get in with people who’ve got a good business and you think they’re going to do sensible 
things with it. I mean, you’ve got that option. 
Now, you also have the option of trying to persuade them to change their mind. But it’s just 
very, very difficult. I mean it is, you know, that’s been something we’ve faced for 50 years. 
And initially, we faced it from a position where nobody even knew who the hell we were, or 
anything of the sort. 
So we’ve acquired a certain stature over time, perhaps in talking on the subject. And we’ve 
written on the subject. And we still don’t get very far. I mean, when people want to do 
something, they want to do something. 
And they didn’t rise to become the CEO of a company to have some shareholder tell them that 
their most recent idea is dumb. I mean, that is just not the type that gets to the top. 
So I would say that, as a matter of investment technique, and maybe as a matter of, you know, 
avoiding stress in your life and all of that sort of thing, that it’s — and dealing with smaller 
quantities of stock so it’s easier to sell and buy and all that sort of thing — I would say that it’s 
better to be in with a management you’re simpatico with, than simply to be in a great business 
with a management that’s bent on doing things that don’t make much sense to you. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I certainly agree with that. 
31. Having “your head screwed on right in the first place” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Second question — (laughs) — I gather is, sort of, how much does our 
actual business experience versus book experience help us? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, it’s, you know, if you look at a person who has just made two years 
of being in the business of investing, versus a person who has been for 10 years in the business 
of investing. 
And say the person who has been for two years, you know, has read a lot about, you know, Ben 
Graham’s techniques, and your techniques, and, say, Peter Lynch’s techniques. So would you 
say that the person who has only two years of experience may do much better than the second 
person? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, if everything else is equal, I mean, everything else is equal, except the 
amount of experience you have, I think the experience is probably useful. But it isn’t going to be 
equal. And I don’t think that — I don’t think that the — 
I think it’s way more important what you’ve thought about for two years than what you’ve 
practiced for 10 years. If you’re — if the direction — if there’s a divergence in techniques 
applied, I would rather be with the one that I’m philosophically in sync with. 
If I’m philosophically in sync with both and one’s had 10 years of experience, the chances are 
they will know a little bit more about more businesses if they’ve been around for 10 years, 
looking at them, than if they’ve been around for two years. 
But the biggest thing is that, you know, basically they’ve got their head screwed on right in the 
first place, in terms of how they value businesses and how they look at stocks. 
Whether they look at them as pieces of businesses or whether they look at them as little things 
that move around, and that you can tell a lot by looking at charts or listening to strategists on or 
something of the sort. 
We have — Charlie and I have learned a lot about a lot of businesses over 40 or 50 years. But I 
would say that, in terms of the new things that would come to us, at the end of the second 
year, we were probably about as good judges of them as we would be today. 
But I think there’s a little plus to having seen — more in terms of human behavior and that sort 
of thing — than knowing about the specifics of a given business model. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I think that — I’ve watched Warren for a long time now, and I would 
say he’s actually getting better as he gets older. Not at golf or — (Buffett laughs) — many other 
activities, but — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Stay with generalities. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — as an investor, he’s better — (laughter) — which I think’s remarkable. It 
shows that scale of experience matters. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, it helps somewhat to have seen a lot of business situation — I mean, 
Charlie talks about models and you construct your models as you go along based on 
observation. 
And your models will — if you’re paying attention, your models will be somewhat better the 
more years you’ve spent really observing and not just trying to make everything fit into what 
you saw the first few years. 
32. Berkshire stock recommendations would be “big mistake” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, my name is Richard Marvel (PH) from Washington, D.C. And my 
question has to do with the intrinsic value of Berkshire Hathaway. 
You’ve stated several times that you would prefer the stock to be neither overvalued nor 
undervalued so that the time people spend owning the security represents a gain from what 
the security — the results during that period of time. 
However, it’s a very difficult security to value because of the disparate pieces. 
And, as we saw last year, when you provide a little bit of guidance — in last year’s annual report 
you said that when the stock price hit $45,000 a share, you considered buying, but thought it 
was unfair until the annual report came out so everyone had the same information. 
And while I also realize that you don’t feel there is a particular quote-unquote “correct” 
number, would you ever consider giving any guidance in this direction? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. The answer is we really wouldn’t. I mean, to the extent that we were 
going to repurchase shares, you could certainly interpret that as indicating that we thought it 
was attractive from the standpoint of remaining shareholders to do so. 
And we certainly wouldn’t be paying over intrinsic value, at least in our judgment, and 
benefiting the exiting shareholders to the disadvantage of the continuing shareholders. So you 
might draw that conclusion at that point. 
But other than that, we’ve — you know, we would prefer Berkshire’s shares to fluctuate far less 
than they do. Because we would like the — ideally — we would like the experience of every 
investor during the time they held the shares to be exactly proportionate to the progress, or 
lack thereof, of the business. 
And I think we’ve come, over the years, reasonably close to that, compared to most companies. 
But the nature of markets is such that reasonably close is as, you know, probably as good as it’s 
going to get. 
We don’t know the exact intrinsic value of Berkshire, obviously. And if you looked at the figures, 
we — if we had written down secret figures over the — ever since 1965 — they would — some 
of them would look silly now, in terms of what has actually transpired. 
But we try to give you — I think Berkshire is easier to value than most businesses, actually, 
because we give you all the information that, at least, is important to us in valuing it. 
And then the biggest judgment you have to make is how well capital will be deployed in the 
future. 
Because it’s easy — it’s relatively easy — to figure out the present value of most of our 
businesses, but the question becomes, “What do we do with the money, as it comes in?” 
And that will have a huge impact on the value 10 years from now. And that will depend a lot on 
the environment in which we operate over the next 10 years. There’ll be a lot of luck in it. 
I think — you know, I think there’s a reasonable chance of good luck. But who knows? 
It would be a mistake for us to do anything — I mean, a big mistake — to ever recommend 
buying or selling the stock. I mean, how would you tell everybody to do it at once? You know, 
you would negate your own advice. 
You’re certainly not going to tell one person, you know, to the advantage or the disadvantage 
of somebody else. 
So there’s really no way for us to ever talk about whether we think the stock — whether we 
think it’s a buy or a sale, except to the extent, like I say, on repurchases where there’s obviously 
an implicit judgment being given the shareholders. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I rather like the way it’s worked out. 
If you average out the period that we’ve been through, we’ve come within hailing distance of 
the objective of having our stock track its intrinsic value. It gets a little ahead sometimes and a 
little behind other times, but averaged out, it’s worked pretty well. 
33. Would Benjamin Graham’s “cigar butt” strategy work now? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon. My name is Martin O’Leary (PH) and I’m from Houston, 
Texas. My question to you is this. 
In your annual report this year, in the letter to the shareholders, you indicated that it was 50 
years ago that you met Benjamin Graham, and that he had a major impact in your life, 
especially in your investment success. 
Moreover, you’ve stated in the past that “The Intelligent Investor” is, by far, the greatest book 
ever written on investing. 
One of the central tenants in the book was that if you bought a group of stocks, say, 10 or 20, 
that traded at two-thirds or less than net current assets, that you would be assured of a margin 
of safety, coupled with a satisfactory rate of return. 
Today, if you were to find 10 or 20 stocks that trade at two-thirds of net current assets, would 
you be inclined to purchase those stocks for your own personal portfolio, not for Berkshire 
Hathaway? 
And the second question, since I’ve mentioned the book, I was wondering which books that you 
and Mr. Munger have been reading lately and would recommend. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, in respect to your first question, you could probably — if you found a 
group like that — and you won’t, I don’t think — you’d probably do all right buying the group. 
But not because the businesses themselves worked out that well over time, but because there 
would probably be a reasonable amount of corporate activity in a group like that, either in 
terms of the managements taking them private, or takeovers, or that sort of thing. 
But those sub-working capital stocks are just almost impossible to find now. And if you got into 
a market where a lot of them existed, you’d probably find wonderful businesses selling a lot 
cheaper, too. And our inclination would be to go with a cheap, wonderful business. 
I don’t think you’ll get — in a high market or something close to it — I don’t think you’ll get a lot 
of sub- working capital stocks anymore. There’s just too much money around to promote deals 
before they really get to that point. 
But that was a technique. It was 50 years ago. 
And is Walter Schloss here still? Walter, are you here? Stand up if you’re here. 
I met Walter 50 years ago when I met Ben Graham. I know Walter’s — came out this year, but 
he already knows everything I’ve been talking about, so he may have left. 
But Walter, actually, has practiced in securities, much closer to the original — he’s run a 
partnership now for 46 years, I guess it is. And he’s done it much more with the type of stocks 
that Ben was talking about in those days. 
And he has a record that is absolutely sensational, that is far better than people who get 
promoted and go on television shows and do all of that sort of thing. 
And he’s done it in, you know, what I tend to call cigar butt companies. You know, you get one 
free puff and that’s about it, but they don’t cost anything. 
And that’s — that was the sub-working capital type situations. Walter’s had to extend that 
somewhat, but it’s been a great, great record over a considerable — I mean, 46 years — a very 
considerable period of time. 
So I think, if you found that kind of a group and did it as a group operation, and Ben always 
emphasized a group operation because when you’re dealing with lousy companies but you 
expect a certain number to be taken over and all that, you’d better have a group of them. 
Whereas if you deal with wonderful companies, you only need a couple. But I think, if you see 
that period again, we’ll be very active. But it won’t be in those kind of securities. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. And there’s another change. In the old days, if the business stopped 
working, you could take the working capital and stick it in the shareholders’ pockets. 
And nowadays, as you can tell from all the restructuring charges, when things really go to hell in 
a bucket, somebody else owns a lot of the working capital. The whole culture has changed. 
If you have a little business in France and you get tired of it, as Marks & Spencer has, the French 
say, “What the hell do you mean trying to take your capital back from France? There’re French 
workers in this business.” 
And they don’t care. They don’t say, “It’s your working capital. Take it back,” when the business 
no longer works for you. They say, “It’s our working capital.” The whole culture has changed on 
that one. 
Not completely, but a lot from Ben Graham’s day. There’re a lot of reasons why the investment 
idiosyncrasies of one era don’t translate that perfectly into another. 
WARREN BUFFETT: That list that was published, I forget whether it was published in the 1951 
edition of “Security Analysis” or the ’49 edition of “Intelligent Investor,” but there were a list of 
companies. 
There was Saco-Lowell, there was Marshall-Wells, there was Cleveland Worsted Mills, there 
was Foster Wheeler, and all those companies were sub-working capital companies selling at 
three or four times earnings. 
And there was a — if you bought a group of stocks like that, you were going to do well. But, you 
know, I — you certainly don’t see that in companies of any size today. 
And I’ve seen a few lists of tech companies selling below cash. But they’re determined to use 
that cash. And it may not be there in a year or two. 
It was a different breed of animal, to some extent, in Ben’s list at that time. 
34. Book recommendations 
WARREN BUFFETT: Did you ask a second question? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Books you’ve read. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, books I’ve read. 
Well, tell him what books you’ve read, Charlie. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I mentioned that one book “Genome.” I have a hell of a time putting 
the accent on the first syllable. But that is a marvelous book. 
And some shareholder sent me a book that not many of you will like, by Herb Simon I think, 
“Models of My Life.” And it’s a very interesting book for a certain academic type. 
But that “Genome,” you know, which is the history of a species in 23 chapters, and it’s a 
perfectly amazing book, and very interesting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I may have recommended it before, but if you haven’t read “Personal 
History” by Katharine Graham, I think you’d find that it’s a fascinating story. And more amazing 
yet, it’s an honest story. 
You know, if I ever write my autobiography, I’m going to look like Arnold Schwarzenegger, but 
— (Laughter) 
But she is compulsively honest about what’s happened. And it’s really quite a saga. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It is a good book. 
That Janet Lowe book about me I find has had a very interesting sub-chapter, so to speak, in its 
distribution. 
I notice a considerable number of people buying that book and sending one copy to each 
descendant. 
They believe that if they just do that, the descendants will behave more like the parents. It’ll be 
interesting to see if that works. If it does, it’s going to outsell the Bible. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hold your breath — (Laughter) 
35. Congress should loosen capital restrictions for utilities 
WARREN BUFFETT: Area 5. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon. I’m Laura Rittenhouse (PH) from New York City. And I 
want to say it’s a great pleasure to be here. You talked earlier about companies that monetize 
greed. And it’s great to be with people and with leaders who monetize values. 
You — a couple years ago, you spoke very passionately about campaign finance reform, and I 
wondered if you could comment on your views of this, given recent developments related to 
another question in Washington. 
What’s your expectation for the passage of the repeal of PUHCA? I know there was some recent 
activity in a Senate sub-committee. 
And lastly, a question for Charlie. How would you, or do you, apply the principles of intrinsic 
investing to real estate? 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. In respect to PUHCA, it’s hard for me to — you know, I have no great 
record of handicapping legislative action. 
But I would say that the awareness of the public problems in the electric utility industry under 
current circumstances, you know, has mushroomed. I mean, it’s ballooned. 
And so I think that — I think it’s likely that Congress is more receptive to the idea that they 
need to do something that ensures that the power supply is adequate. 
And I think that there’s probably a number of them that would think that PUHCA is a barrier to 
capital entering the industry from a lot of sources where capital is available. And that it’s going 
to take capital to solve this problem. 
Now, they don’t have to solve it by letting Berkshire do more things. But it’s not a crazy 
approach to say that if Berkshire has billions of dollars to invest, that it might be a net plus for 
the availability of electricity down the road. 
So I think that certainly the chances of repeal or major change are far higher now than they 
were a couple of years ago. And, I mean, politicians do not like to face major brownouts. 
I mean, they can try and blame it on someone else and they may well be accurate in blaming it 
on someone else. 
But the public is going to at least partially blame political leaders if this country runs out of 
electricity, because it hasn’t run out of the ability to build generators. 
You know, we could create all the generators we needed to have plenty of electricity. And we 
could create the transmission lines and all of that. 
But you do need a flow of capital to the industry. And PUHCA restricts that flow to quite a 
degree, I would say. 
36. More regulation needed for campaign contributions 
WARREN BUFFETT: Campaign finance reform, you’ve read about it as much as I have. You 
know, I happen to admire enormously what McCain and Feingold have done. 
I don’t think it’s a panacea. I mean, money is going to find its way into trying to buy political 
influence one way or another. 
But the present situation, in my view, has gotten totally out of control and, incidentally, totally 
out of sync with what the American Congress, even, as well as the public, intended, because in 
1907, Congress said, and it’s never been changed, that corporations shall not contribute money 
to federal elections. 
And in 1947, they said the same thing about labor unions. And then they enacted campaign 
legislation in the early ’70s which, when later interpreted by the Federal Election Commission, 
enabled corporations and unions to do on an unlimited scale, what Congress had said they 
shouldn’t do at all. 
And politicians did not really understand the potential in that, initially. I remember the first guy 
that called me, Senate candidate, called me for a soft money contribution probably in 1985, or 
so. 
And he was kind of embarrassed about it and sort of danced around the subject about how this 
money was going to find its way into his campaign and everything. And he was asking me for an 
amount of money that was illegal under the law, except if I did it via soft money. 
And that has developed to the point where I have literally had people, where I have firsthand 
knowledge, of requesting million dollar contributions or larger, which would never be reported. 
We’d never be required to report it. And I regard that as a perversion of the system. 
But I think we’re going to get some significant improvement. I think it was only possible 
because of the credibility that McCain built up with the public and the fact that he just wouldn’t 
let go of this issue. 
So I’m — but I’m not hopeful about it changing the whole course of American democracy or 
anything of the sort. 
But I am hopeful that the system of government where access is sold to the highest bidder, and 
where the bidding starts at a higher level, by a material amount, in every election cycle, will at 
least be checked for a while. 
Charlie, she had a question for you. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, my trouble with campaign finance reform is that I fear career 
politicians just staying on and on just about as much as I fear special interests protecting 
themselves with money. And I never know exactly how the reform is going to work. 
When I came to California, we had sort of a semi-corrupt, part-time legislature dominated by 
race tracks and saloons and liquor distributors, and so on. 
And people went up and entertained the legislators with prostitutes and what have you. And I 
really sort of prefer that government, in retrospect — (laughter) — to the full-time legislators I 
have now. 
So I just am more skeptical about my ability to predict which reform I’m going to like the results 
of and which I would like to trade back in for my former evils. 
37. Munger has moved on from real estate investing 
WARREN BUFFETT: Laura, you had one more, did you on —? Was it for Charlie? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It was a question about the principles of intrinsic value investing applied 
to real estate. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh, that period of my life involved the remote past. And I much prefer 
business investment to real estate investment. 
38. Q&A concludes 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. It’s 3:30. We’re going to have a directors meeting here, we do that once 
a year, following this meeting. And so I’ll ask the directors to stick around. 
 
