I have a similar question. Back in 2009, you made a substantial investment in Harley-Davidson 
with the five-year term at 15 percent. I noticed that note comes due in 2014. 
What are your plans or thoughts once that investment comes due? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, what we’d like to do is not answer the mail, and just let him keep 
paying his 15 percent, but that won’t happen. 
The — no, those were — we had a few private transactions during a period when the corporate 
bond market was basically frozen and received unusual terms, although the best terms those 
companies obviously could obtain at that time. And those deals are coming due, and I wish the 
five-year deals had been ten-year deals. 
But, now those — that was a special time. And in effect, that’s a depleting asset that we have 
that’s left over from five years ago. 
We won’t see anything like that for a while, but we’ll see similar things at some point in the 
future. 
I mean, the world is given to excesses, and they have consequences, and we are always willing 
to act. 
I mean, we did not think Harley-Davidson was going to go broke. I mean, it was that simple. 
You know, any kind of company that gets its customers to tattoo ads on their chest can’t be all 
bad, you know, I mean— (Laughter) 
But it will be a sad day when the Harley-Davidson notes mature. 
30. Todd Combs and Ted Weschler’s stock-picking independence 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Andishi Tuzush (PH) who asks, “If Todd Combs and Ted 
Weschler, if they purchase stock in a company that you have reviewed before and did not 
believe to be a good investment, would you share your thoughts with them?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: I would probably not know they were even buying it until, maybe, a month 
after they started. 
I do not — they do not check with me before they buy something. 
I gave them each another billion dollars on March 31st, and I do not know whether they’ve 
spent the billion or whether — which stocks they bought or— 
Now, I will see it on portfolio sheets. I get them monthly, but they’re in charge of their 
investments. 
They’ve got one or two things that they’re restricted on, in terms of— things that — for 
example, if we own a chunk of American Express, and under the Bank Holding Company law we 
would not be able to buy another share. 
So there’s a couple things like that — restrictions they have. But otherwise, they have no 
restrictions on what they buy. 
They’ve bought things I wouldn’t buy. You know, I buy things they wouldn’t buy. That part of 
the investment process. 
I do not tell them how much to diversify. They can put it all in one stock if they want to. They 
can put it in 50 stocks, although that’s not my style. 
They are managing money. And when I managed money, you know, I wanted to be a free 
agent. 
If he wanted to give me — they could make the decision on whether they wanted to give me 
the money, but once they gave me the money, and I had the responsibility for managing it, I 
wanted free reign to do what I wanted. And I did not want to be held responsible for things 
with my hands tied. 
And that’s exactly the position we have with Todd and Ted now. 
It takes a lot of — it’s an unusual person that we will give that kind of responsibility to. That’s 
not something that Charlie and I would do lightly at all. 
But we thought they deserved the trust when we hired them, and we believe that more than 
ever after watching them in action for a time. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: What can I say in addition to that? 
31. Why GEICO isn’t copying Progressive’s Snapshot 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Cliff? 
CLIFF GALLANT: Thank you. I wanted to ask a follow-up question about Snapshot at Progressive. 
Now, I realize that GEICO’s first quarter numbers are very good, things are going very well at 
the company. 
But Progressive is claiming that the data is profound, that they’re getting from Snapshot. That 
they can give their best drivers 30 percent rate cuts, and those customers are still their most 
profitable customers. 
We have a lot of GEICO policyholders here today. I’m sure they’re very good drivers. 
Why shouldn’t they go try Snapshot and try to save 30 percent or more? Why isn’t GEICO 
investing in what I think appears to be a credible underwriting tool and potential threat? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. They — I don’t think — but obviously Progressive disagrees with us — 
but I don’t think their selection method is better than ours. And I would say that I might even 
feel that ours is a little bit better than theirs. 
But every company has a different approach to it. 
Peter Lewis, who runs Progressive, when he started the company— he told me this story 
himself. I mean, it was a tiny, tiny little company. It came out of a mutual company, as you 
know. 
And he went in the motorcycle business. And the first guy that he insured— or the first loss, I 
think, that was reported— came from some guy that was redheaded, and he just decided not to 
insure any redheads for a while. (Laughter) 
That — you know—when you don’t have very much money, you can’t afford to experiment too 
long. 
Well, Peter learned that that was not a criteria, and he knew that, but he had fun telling the 
story. 
But all we’re trying to do— if I’m looking at all these people here and I’m going to issue them 
insurance policies for the next year, I’m going to charge different rates to different people. 
And, if I’m going to sell them life insurance, I’m going to charge different rates to them. If I’m 
going to sell them health insurance, I’m going to charge different rates. 
There’s a different — there’s a different probability attached to each individual, based on a 
whole lot of variables. 
And Progressive — before Snapshot, they had a different selection approach than GEICO. 
And like I say, ours has worked very well and we think it will continue to work well. 
And we are obtaining, under our selection system, we are obtaining a hugely disproportionate 
number of new policyholders compared to the growth in the market, so our rates are attractive 
and our underwriting results are attractive. 
And we continue, always, to look for further ways, obviously, to refine the selection technique. 
But we don’t do any of it lightly because what we’re doing now is working very well. 
And I just invite you to compare the Progressive results with the GEICO results in the next two 
or three years, and I will — if we’re wrong — I will be here to freely admit that we were wrong, 
but I don’t think we will be. 
OK, station 8? 
Oh, Charlie, you want to add something? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well now, obviously, we’re not going to immediately copy the oddball thing 
that every single competitor does in the world, particularly when we’ve got an operation that’s 
working so well. 
WARREN BUFFETT: If I were starting in the direct auto insurance business, I think I would 
attempt to copy GEICO. 
It wouldn’t work, but it would offer you the best chance, I think. It’s a remarkable system. 
And Tony Nicely, you can’t give him enough credit. I mean — you know, we will — I hope we 
will — gain a million policies this year. 
The entire industry, I don’t think, will gain more than a million-and-a-half. So we will probably 
get two-thirds — in my view — we’ll get two-thirds of all the growth and we’ll do it profitably, 
and we’ll save people a lot of money. So I think that’s quite a company. 
32. We rely on sugar and caffeine, not to-do lists 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 8? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Alex, and I’m from Los Angeles. 
Mr. Buffett, I’ve heard that one of your ways of focusing your energy is that you write down the 
25 things you want to achieve, choose the top 5, and then avoid the bottom 20. 
I’m really curious how you came up with this, and what other methods you have to prioritizing 
your desires? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’m actually more curious about how you came up with it, because — 
(laughter) — it really isn’t the case. 
It sounds like a very good method of operating, but it’s much more disciplined than I actually 
am. (Laughter) 
If they stick fudge down in front of me, I eat it, you know, I’m not thinking about 25 other 
choices. (Applause) 
So I don’t mean to —you know, Charlie and I live very simple lives. We know what we do enjoy, 
and we now have the option of doing it, pretty much. 
Charlie likes to design buildings. I mean, he’s not—he’s no longer a frustrated architect — he’s a 
full-fledged architect now. And, you know — and we both like to read a lot. 
But we — I’ve never made lists. I can’t recall making a list in my life, but maybe I’ll start. 
You’ve given me an idea. Thank you. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, what’s really interesting on the subject of Warren’s operating 
methods, you can see happening here. 
We didn’t know, when we started out, this modern psychological evidence to the effect that 
you shouldn’t make a lot of important decisions when you’re tired and that making a lot of 
difficult decisions is tiring. 
And we didn’t also know, as well as we now do, how helpful it is to be consuming caffeine and 
sugar when you’re making important decisions. (Laughter) 
And what happens, of course, is that both Warren and I live entirely on autopilot, in terms of 
the ordinary decisions in life, which is totally habitual, so we don’t work — waste — any 
decision making industry — I mean energy — on that stuff, and we’re ingesting caffeine and 
sugar. 
And, it turns out, under the modern evidence, this is an ideal way to sit where Warren sits. And 
he didn’t know that, he just stumbled into it. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: When we write our book on nutrition, it promises to be a huge seller. 
(Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I cannot remember an important decision that Warren has made when he 
was tired. 
He’s never tired. (Laughter) 
He sleeps soundly, and he doesn’t waste time thinking about what he’s going to eat. As you say, 
he just eats what he’s always eaten. 
You know, his style turns out to be absolutely ideal for human cognition. (Laughter) 
It looks peculiar, but he stumbled into something very good. 
WARREN BUFFETT: You can write the forward to my next book. OK. (Laughter) 
33. Buffett defends buying newspaper companies 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: This following question comes from a shareholder who asked to remain 
anonymous. 
They write, “I’m from Omaha, and I’m thrilled you bought our newspaper as a local citizen, but 
not so much as an investor in Berkshire. 
“I read your reasons for acquiring newspapers, but it still doesn’t make sense to me, 
economically, given the downward trends in the industry. 
“Don’t you think there are other businesses with higher rates of return that you could buy? 
“Why would you buy such a small business, since you always say you want to buy elephants? 
“Please quantify exactly what rate of return you expect from the newspapers.” (Scattered 
applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I would say that we will get a decent rate of return. 
Whether it’s — most of them, incidentally, have been bought, and they were either S 
corporations or partnerships of some sort. 
So they — compared to buying a Heinz, for example, or a BNSF or something of the sort — they 
actually have a certain structural advantage in terms of the eventual return after tax, because 
we get to write off the intangibles we’re purchasing. 
That affects the after-tax return, compared to the pretax return that would come from this. 
But I would say that our after-tax return, with declining earnings, which I expect, would be at 
least 10 percent after tax, but I think — and it could well be somewhat higher. 
I think it’s very unlikely that it would be significantly lower. 
And everything we have seen to date, and it hasn’t been that long, but we have a number of 
papers now, would indicate that we will meet or beat the 10 percent. 
It doesn’t have — it’s not going to move the needle at Berkshire. 
You know, the papers we have bought now, we’re probably getting close to maybe having 100 
million of pretax earnings, a good bit of which is — fair amount of which — we get a favorable 
tax treatment on, because they were bought from S corporations. 
You know, and 100 million is real money, but it doesn’t move the needle at Berkshire. 
But it will end up being a very — I think it will be a perfectly decent return in relation to capital 
employed. 
Now, we wouldn’t have done it in any other business. I mean, there’s no question — the 
questioner is right about that. 
But, it doesn’t — you know — doesn’t require an extra ounce of effort by me or Charlie or 
people at headquarters. We will get a decent return and we like newspapers and — 
Although, the one thing I’ll promise to do with you is I will be glad to give you figures, annually, 
as to how we are doing relative to investment. 
We are buying the papers at very, very low prices compared to current earnings, and we must 
do that because the earnings will go down. 
Now, the interesting thing is, of course, is that we see books from investment bankers on all 
kinds of businesses, and always the projected earnings go up in the book. 
A lot of times they don’t — you know, in reality — they don’t go up. The difference is that we 
expect them to go down in the newspapers, and whatever the investment salesmen expect, 
they certainly don’t project that any business they sell will have declining earnings. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think what you’re saying is that it’s an exception and you like doing 
it. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I wish I hadn’t asked. (Laughter) OK. 
34. Follow Teledyne CEO Henry Singleton’s lead 
WARREN BUFFETT: Doug? Sort of a lead-in to you, Doug. (Laughter) 
DOUG KASS: Warren, in a previous answer to a question, you suggested, I think for the first 
time, that when you’re gone — and everyone here hopes that’s not for a very long time — 
WARREN BUFFETT: No one more than I. (Laughter) 
DOUG KASS: I thought you would say that — 
You’re going to move — Berkshire will likely move — to a more centralized style, or approach, 
to management. 
My question is, in the past you’ve demonstrated a great deal of respect for Dr. Henry Singleton, 
the founder and longtime CEO of the diversified conglomerate Teledyne. 
You have written about Singleton, quote, “Henry is a manager that all investors, CEOs, would-
be CEOs, and MBA students should study. 
“In the end, he was 100 percent rational, and there are very few CEOs about whom I can make 
that statement,” close quotes. 
Prior to his death, he broke up Teledyne into three companies. Dr. Singleton told our mutual 
friend, Lee Cooperman, that he did it for several reasons. 
There was one reason in particular that Lee mentioned to me that I want to ask you about. 
According to Singleton, Teledyne was getting very hard to manage for one CEO. 
What would you say about the Berkshire situation, given your company’s greater complexity, 
size, and the management issues that you faced in the last three years? 
And what is the advisability of restructuring Berkshire into separately-traded companies along 
business lines? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Berkshire, to me, seems about the easiest company to manage imaginable. 
And if you took an earlier answer — and I understand why you did, that implied greater 
centralization after my death, there will be a tiny bit more, just in terms of the small companies. 
But I do not anticipate any change of any real significance. 
Now, Charlie knew Henry Singleton, and I think it might be interesting for Charlie to give you his 
views on what Singleton did right and, eventually, wrong. 
And, I’ll answer the last part of your question, though. 
Breaking it up into several companies, I’m convinced, would produce a poorer result. Certainly 
now, and I believe in the future. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, Henry Singleton was a genius who could play chess blindfolded just 
below the grandmaster level and never got less than an 800 on any complicated math or 
physics exam. 
And, I knew him. He lived in my community. 
But he started as a conglomerate where he was very interested in reporting higher earnings all 
the time so he could keep the daisy chain going. And when he managed it on the way down, he 
bought in the stock relentlessly and very logically, like a great chess player should. 
And — but he managed those companies on a way more centralized basis than Berkshire has 
ever operated. 
And in the end, the great bulk of the enterprises, he wanted to sell to us. And by that time, he 
was ill and he really wanted to sell to us. And of course, he wanted Berkshire stock. 
And we basically said to him, “Henry, we love you and we’d love to buy your businesses, but we 
don’t want to issue Berkshire stock.” 
So, I don’t think you should get the idea that just because he was a genius he did it better than 
we did. 
He did, in some ways, because he understood these very high-tech businesses, but — 
WARREN BUFFETT: He played the public markets way better. I mean, it— 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We’re not interested in doing that, actually. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, we’re not. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And he was incredible in that, and he made a fortune for shareholders that 
stayed with him. 
But he was — to some extent, he looked at the shareholder group as somebody to be taken 
advantage of, and he issued stock like crazy. I’ll bet he did at least 50 acquisitions where— 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. 
WARREN BUFFETT: He wanted to use a very fancy price stock. He was playing the game of the 
’60s, and we actually have never wanted to get in that game. 
I mean, he promoted the stock. And, you know, he had the Litton Industries background on it, 
and it was a game that worked wonderfully if you didn’t care about how it ended up. 
And so we have not played that game. He was — in terms of wanting to get Berkshire stock — 
you know, he essentially was going into the third stage—(laughs) — of first issuing shares at 
overprice, then buying it back very underpriced, and then he was going to — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — sell it to us for more than it was worth. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, exactly. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It was the wrong stock. But he was an enormously talented man and that 
cool rationality was to be admired. 
I like our system better. We’re more avuncular than Teledyne was. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Not the toughest test. (Laughs) 
35. High health costs are hurting competitiveness 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 9? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Kelly Morrell (PH) from New York, and I have a question. 
You’ve been both very outspoken on corporate and personal tax rates, as well as the trade 
deficit. 
And I’m wondering if you can elaborate on what the top two or three things you think both 
business leaders and policy makers should be focused on to preserve U.S. competitiveness? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I would say health care costs would be a big item. 
We’re spending — we’re a country that’s spending, we’ll say — you get different figures — but 
call it 17 1/2 percent or so of GDP. And most of our rivals in the world are paying anywhere 
from, probably, 9 1/2 to, maybe, 11 1/2, or thereabouts. 
So, you know, there are only 100 cents in the dollar, and if you give up 6 or 7 or 8 points of that 
dollar, I mean, it’s just like having a raw material that costs you more, or something of the sort. 
So, that will be a major problem in American competitiveness. It is right now, and it will — all 
signs point to the fact that it will become more so. 
And it doesn’t relate to the Medicare problem, which is a huge problem, obviously, but the real 
problem is health care costs, whether it’s in the private system or whatever payer system you 
have. 
We have a big, big disadvantage in cost versus the rest of the world. 
People used to talk about how General Motors had $1500 a car in health care costs that Toyota 
didn’t have. Well, if they had $1500 a car disadvantage in steel costs, I mean, you know, the 
management would be focused on that. 
If they had $150 — if they had $15 — difference in steel costs, but health care costs, which are 
sort of beyond the control of any one company, promise to be a huge competitive 
disadvantage. 
Overall, though, incidentally, I mean, the United States — since the crisis of 2008 — we have 
done very well, compared to most countries, and our system works. 
But if you asked me the number one problem for American business, I would say it’s that health 
care cost disadvantage. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I would add that I don’t think it does our competitiveness any good to 
have this grossly swollen securities and derivative market — markets. (Scattered applause) 
And the young men from Caltech and MIT going into high finance and derivative trading, and so 
on, I think this is a perfectly crazy outcome in terms of its effect on the country. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Anything further? (Scattered applause) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I agree with you about the health care, but I find the other more 
revolting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie’s very Old Testament. And he’s right. 
36. Obamacare’s effect on Berkshire? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: This question picks up, indeed, from where you were on the previous answer. 
It’s from John Sealme (PH). 
“I have never heard or read whether all of Berkshire’s nearly 300,000 employees are currently 
receiving health benefits. 
“If all employees today are not receiving benefits, has Berkshire quantified the cost of 
complying with the Affordable Care Act? And if so, what will be the costs be? 
“In other words, how is the Affordable Care Act going to affect Berkshire?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I don’t know the answer to that. 
The— I’m virtually certain that — you know, we’ve got 70-plus subsidiaries, some of which — 
one of which — has over 100 itself. 
So, very hard to speak totally categorically. But to my knowledge, I don’t know of any units that 
don’t have health care benefits. 
But like I say, I mean, we just bought 27 or 28 daily newspapers, some of them are very small, 
so I can’t really speak to every single unit. 
But health care costs are a huge cost for us. We’re actually going to do — we do very few things 
with, as you know, on a centralized basis — but that is something where all of our companies 
will try to learn what’s in store for them and try to figure out some answers. 
But we have not yet — we have not assessed in any way — put together — the kind of figures 
that that question calls for. 
We spent a lot of money, obviously, I mean, to get up to the kind of numbers that are coming 
through on health care costs. 
I see them at some of our — a few of our — individual units, as I look at their monthly reports. I 
will see costs rising 10 or 12 percent. 
And what happens in 2014, I don’t know. 
But the same thing will be happening to our competitors, and we will try to figure out what 
makes the most sense at that time. 
And our individual managers are already working, particularly the larger units, are spending a 
lot of time on that. 
But it’s not something we try to control out of headquarters. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, it’s a — we really don’t want to try and control it out of headquarters. 
We like that kind of decision being made near the firing line. 
37. Future of rooftop solar power 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan? 
JONATHAN BRANDT: Here’s a question for Charlie on a subject which I consider him an expert 
on, and I hope I don’t prove my ignorance by asking the question. 
The question is about capital spending plans at your regulated utilities and a potential long-
term risk to realizing returns on current and future capacity. 
With the ongoing reduction in the cost of solar panels causing more utility customers to, at 
least, consider generating electricity from their own rooftops, some worry about a vicious circle 
of customers reducing their dependence on the grid, forcing utilities to raise rates, to maintain 
returns on the remaining customers who, in turn, are then incentivized to reduce their 
dependence on the grid, or even exit it. 
I understand the risks are greatest to regulated utilities in sunny places like Arizona and 
California, but given how much solar power is generated in cloudy places like Germany, are 
regulated utilities in Iowa, the Pacific Northwest, the Rocky Mountains, and the UK really 
immune? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, my answer would be I don’t think anybody really knows exactly how 
this is going to play out. 
I confidently predict there will be more solar generation in deserts than there is going to be on 
rooftops in cloudy places — (laughter) — and there’s a good reason for that. 
And Berkshire’s big operations, as you — in solar — are in what amounts to desert. 
And we get very favorable terms and incentives, and I think Berkshire’s going to do fine in solar. 
I am skeptical, myself, about trying to run the utilities of the world from a bunch of little, tiny 
rooftops. I suspect there’s some twaddle in that — and some fancy salesmanship in that arena. 
And of course, the people that did it early were foolish because the price came down rapidly 
thereafter. So put me down as not totally charmed by rooftops in cloudy areas. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We have Greg Abel here from MidAmerican Energy. If we can direct a 
spotlight down there, Greg can probably speak to this with a lot more intelligence than Charlie 
and I. I noticed that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I noticed that—I noticed that Jonathan left me out of the thing entirely 
when he wanted to get an intelligent answer, but I’m not taking any offense at that. Greg? 
GREG ABEL: Sure. Happy to touch on it. 
Jonathan, I would touch on the fact you’re absolutely right. We’re seeing, when it comes to 
rooftop solar, a decline in the total cost of installing them. 
At the same time, when you compare it to a regional tariff, or a specific tariff in most of those 
states, the utility is extremely still competitive. 
And I would highlight that as you see more rooftops coming on, you’ll see a restructuring of the 
tariffs, but at the same time, there’s a lot of protection for the utilities. 
So in the regions we’re supplying power, we will see some introduction of solar, but we’re 
absolutely comfortable our systems for the long-term are valuable both to our customers and 
to our shareholders — Berkshire shareholders — for the long term. Thanks. 
38. Luck, timing, and success 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 10. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. Marc Marzotto, Toronto, Canada. 
Bill Gross made recent comments that his generation of investors, yourselves included, owed a 
deal of their success to timing. 
Do you agree with Bill’s comment, and do you think a similar opportunity will provide itself to 
today’s investors? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, there’s no question that being born in the United States was a huge, 
huge, huge advantage to me, and as I’ve pointed out in a recent article, being born male was a 
big advantage. 
I would not have had the same opportunities in the investment, or in the business world, 
remotely, that I’ve had if I’d been a female born in 1930. 
And the timing could have been a little better. Actually, my dad was a security salesman and, 
you know, I was conceived in November, 1929. And if you remember, the stocks had gone 
down dramatically at that time. 
There really wasn’t anybody to call on, for my dad, and there wasn’t any television at home or 
anything. So here I am, you know. (Laughter) 
So I feel myself very lucky that the crash of 1929 came along. 
And that also provided a decade, more than a decade, of people who were very turned off. 
Well, it was a decade of terrible business for quite a while, and then a decade of — more of 
people that were turned off on stocks, just as we sort of had a decade like that in the past 
decade going up to 2010 or so, people that — a lot of people — that had gotten turned off by 
stocks. 
So that was a favorable environment. But the United States itself was an incredibly favorable 
environment. If I’d been born five years earlier, I probably would have made more money. But 
if I’d been born 10 or 15 years later, I would’ve made, probably, less money. 
But, it— I envy the baby that’s being born today in the United States. I mean, I think, on a 
probability basis, that’s the luckiest individual that’s ever been born. 
And I think that they will do very well in life in all kinds of ways, on a probability basis, better 
than existed when I was born. 
And I think they’ll have opportunities to do very well in the investment field. 
It may not be as good a field as it was for me starting in 19-, say, ’50, ’51 or thereabouts, but it 
will be a very good field to operate in. 
The person that has a passion for investing, born today, coming of age 20 years from now, is 
likely, in my view, to do very well, and to live far better than we live today, just as we live far 
better than John D. Rockefeller lived many years ago. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, the competition was very weak in your early days, and I don’t think 
the competition is as weak now. 
So I think, sure, we got advantages from timing. And I don’t think that means there’s nothing to 
be done ahead. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But Charlie, in 2008 and ’9, there were all kinds of high IQ — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: — highly experienced, investment professionals, I mean, thousands and 
thousands and thousands of them. 
And you invested at the Daily Journal Company in some equities at X that are worth, what, 
three X or four X now, or something like that? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That’s right. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I call that opportunity, but it may be routine to him. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But I sat for a lot of years before I did it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But it still became available. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh, yes. But you were drowning in opportunities when I first knew you. 
(Laughter) 
You were waiting for — 
WARREN BUFFETT: I wasn’t drowning in money, unfortunately. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, what you lacked was money. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, now we’ve got money and no ideas. 
39. You have to like what you’re doing 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station—(Laughter) 
Station 10? Station 10? Do we have a Station 10? Let’s take a look. It should be right over there. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Dexter Ang (PH). I’m from Stafford, Virginia. 
I’m 30 years old, and I’m wondering what my life will be like in a few years, let alone 50 years 
from now. 
My question for both Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger is: how do you think you’ve changed over the 
last 50 years? 
And if you could communicate to yourself 50 years ago, what would you tell them, one piece of 
advice, business or personal, and how would you do it in a way where your former self would 
actually heed it? (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, I’ll let you answer that. (Laughter) 
Incidentally, I’ll trade you places, so don’t worry about your future. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, we’re basically so old-fashioned that we’re boringly trite. 
We think you ought to keep plugging along and stay rational and stay energetic and just all the 
old virtues still work, and— 
WARREN BUFFETT: But find what turns you on. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You’ve got to work where you’re turned on. 
I don’t know about Warren, but I have never succeeded to any great extent in something I 
didn’t like doing. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie and I both started in the same grocery store, and neither one of us 
are in the grocery business. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We were not going to be promoted, either, and even though you had the 
family name. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) 
My grandfather was right, too. (Laughs) 
It’s really — I mean, if you’re lucky, and Charlie and I were lucky in this respect. We — well, we 
were lucky to be in this country to start with — but we found things we like to do very early in 
life, and then we, you know, we pushed very hard in doing those things, but we were enjoying it 
while we did it. 
We have had so much fun running Berkshire, I mean, it’s almost sinful. 
But, we were lucky to — you know, my dad happened to be in a business that he didn’t find 
very interesting but I found very interesting. 
And so when I would go down on Saturday, there were a lot of books to read, and, you know, it 
just flowed from a very early age. And Charlie found — he found — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We found a way to atone by your — for your — sins in having so much fun. 
You’re giving all the money back. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, but you give it all back whether you want to or not, in the end. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That’s true, too. (Laughter) 
40. Rational insurance pricing 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Laurence Endersen in Dublin, Ireland. 
And he asks, “What factors have enabled Berkshire’s insurance pricing policy to stay so rational 
while also being a very sizable market participant?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: In insurance, was that the — 
BECKY QUICK: In insurance, yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I would say this: I really do think that Berkshire is an unusually 
rational place. 
I mean, we know what we want to accomplish. We’ve had the benefit of a very, very long run, 
and we’ve had the benefit of a — you can argue whether it was a benefit or not — but of 
controlling shareholders, so we did not have outside influences that pushed us in directions 
that we didn’t want to go. 
So, you know, insurance should be conducted as a rational activity. And one of the problems 
that some insurers have had is that they would have a pressure for increasing premium volume 
every year, brought upon by Wall Street, you know— very few— 
We actually contracted the business written by National Indemnity, formerly our main business, 
its traditional business, I think we contracted it, probably, by 80 percent or something of the 
sort when the business became less attractive. 
I’m not sure any manager of a public company that was answering to quarterly earnings calls 
and that sort of thing, I’m not sure whether they could’ve really stood up to the kind of 
pressure that they would receive if they followed a similar policy. 
We have no — if we do something stupid, it’s because we did something stupid. It’s not — no 
external factors are pressing on us. And that’s a great way to operate, and it’ll continue to be 
the way we operate. 
Most people, if you own a half of 1 percent of the company or less, you know, and other people 
are doing things that Wall Street is applauding and you’re not doing them, it could be very hard 
to resist. 
And you know, you respond to media criticism and all kinds of things that— 
We don’t have — we don’t have to do it. And there’s no reason for us to do anything stupid in 
insurance. 
You get offered a lot of opportunities to do things that are stupid. We were major writers of 
catastrophe — natural catastrophe — insurance in the United States some years ago when the 
prices were right. 
We don’t think the prices are right now, so we don’t write it. We haven’t left the market, the 
market left us, and — but we are not about to do something where we get paid 90 cents for 
running the — running a probabilistic loss of a dollar. 
It just doesn’t make any sense and we won’t do it. And we don’t put any pressure on anybody 
to do it, and their incomes are not dependent on doing it. So it’s not hard to be rational at 
Berkshire. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. There are pressures on other people that we don’t want and 
therefore don’t have. 
It is very hard to shrink an insurance operation by 80 percent when the people who come in 
every day don’t have enough to do, and it’s just — it’s a counter-intuitive thing to do. 
But it’s absolutely required that you do it in a place where people go as crazy as they do in 
insurance. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it’s like buying Internet stocks, you know, in the late 1990s. I mean, 
the — all around you, you have these people that have high IQs and they’re doing it and they’re 
being successful in it. 
So, you know, everybody from your, you know, your spouse to your employer to the press says, 
you know, “How come all these other — how come you think you’re so smart, you know, 
avoiding this when everybody else is doing it and they’re making a lot of money?” 
And, of course, it creates this social proof where it works for a while. 
That’s the great danger period in all of these bubbles, is that what starts out with skepticism 
ends up with your neighbor getting richer than you are because he went along and you didn’t. 
And that sort of thing — the bandwagon effect and everything — those things are very hard to 
resist. 
But we don’t have any pressures to do that sort of thing. I mean, we just don’t give a damn, you 
know, and if — 
We don’t necessarily think we’re smarter than the other person on that. We just think we don’t 
understand what it’s all about. 
And if they can make a lot of money, you know, day trading or whatever it may be, you know, 
good luck to them. But we’re not envious of them, but we certainly are not going to do it just 
because they’re doing it. 
Charlie, any more on that? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh, I always say there’s a reason why all that stuff is in the Bible. You can’t 
covet your neighbor’s ass or — (Laughter) 
I mean, they were having trouble with envy a long time ago. And it’s a perfectly terrible thing to 
do, and how much fun can you have being envious? 
We always say it’s the one sin there’s no fun in. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) 
Gluttony is a lot of fun. (Laughs) 
Lust has its place, too, but we won’t get into that. 
41. “Dumb” competition from hedge funds in reinsurance 
WARREN BUFFETT: Cliff? (Laughter) 
CLIFF GALLANT: We can follow that up. (Laughter) 
Reinsurance pricing is expected to be down at midyear renewals this year, despite the fact that 
we’ve had a lot catastrophes in recent years. 
The finger is being pointed towards alternative capital entering the market, new capacity 
entering the market. 
How concerned are you about this new capacity, and, you know, what is the likelihood that 
cheap reinsurance pricing soon leads to cheaper primary commercial pricing? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We hate dumb competition, and hedge fund — managed money, but 
particularly hedge funds — have entered the insurance, and more particularly, probably, the 
reinsurance business, quite aggressively in the last few years. 
For one thing, it gives them a chance to have a beard, in effect, to operate in Bermuda or 
someplace where the tax rates are low and where they defer their own income from U.S. 
income taxes for a long time, and it’s a perfectly respectable beard. 
And it can be sold to investors. And people talk about it, you know, being an uncorrelated type 
of operation and all of that. Anything Wall Street can sell, it will sell. I mean, you can count on 
that. And — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: They like big words, too. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. And it’s very salable now, and the money will flow in and the money 
will — may — bring down prices, it may do stupid things in reinsurance, but that’s happened 
before. 
And in the end, you know, we know what we’re willing to do, we know what we think the prices 
should be, and we will do insurance business where we think that the odds favor us earning an 
underwriting profit. And if we can’t do it, we’ll watch for a while. 
You can’t afford, you know, to go along with the crowd in investment, insurance, or a whole lot 
of other things. 
And it can be irritating to have a dumb competitor. I mean, if you’ve got a service station on the 
corner and you’ve got a guy across the street that is willing to sell gas below cost, you know, 
you’ve got a terrible problem. That’s why I got out of the gas station business a long time ago. 
But insurance, it’s — nice thing about it is— the standby costs are not huge, so it’s not like 
idling steel plants or something. 
So we were perfectly willing in the 1980s to have our expense ratio go up significantly because 
our volume went down so dramatically. 
And, you know, it was a standby cost that was real, but it wasn’t back breaking, and we just 
waited for better days, and they came along. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: With our cranky, wait-it-out methods, we probably have ended up with the 
best large-scale causality insurance operation in the world. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I think that’s true, but — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: So why would we change? 
WARREN BUFFETT: We never really anticipated it would happen, though, when we started in. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That’s true. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It just sort of evolved. 
But the principles were useful, and then we were very lucky in getting some sensational people. 
You know, we’ve got Tad Montross at Gen Re, we’ve got Ajit Jain, we’ve got Don Wurster, 
we’ve got Tony Nicely at GEICO. 
I mean, we have just hit the jackpot, in terms of the people. And they like the environment of 
Berkshire in which to operate, because they do not get pressures to do dumb things, which 
they would get at many other places. 
42. Buffett calls for more women in corporate leadership roles 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Susan Tilson, and I’m from New York City. I am a long-term 
shareholder, but this is my first time to Omaha. This is quite the little gathering you’ve got going 
on here. 
You, just a few minutes ago, Mr. Buffett, mentioned that you enjoyed a lot of advantages as a 
male. 
I have three daughters, and I would like them to be able to go as far as their aspirations and 
hard work take them. 
I’ve noticed and applaud the fact that you’ve added women to Berkshire’s board, but both the 
board and senior management at Berkshire still reflect the reality that in 2013, there are very 
few women holding the top jobs in corporate America. 
Do you see this as a problem? And if so, what should be done about it? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I do see it as a problem, and I — (Scattered applause) 
I’ve written an article in Fortune Magazine, which if you go to Fortune.com, I guess it’s in front 
of the paywall. You can click on it. It’s only 1150 words or so. And you’ll see my views on that. 
But there’s no question that women throughout my lifetime and, you know, for a millennia 
before that, have not had the same shot at many things in the world that males have. 
I mean, I have two sisters, as I pointed out in this article — both here today, I believe — and, 
you know, a couple years on each side of me, and absolutely as smart as I am. They’re more 
personable than I am. They got along with people much better than I did when we were young. 
Got — their grades were the same, but they did not have the same opportunities at all. 
I mean, nobody really wanted to limit them. Certainly the— you know, my parents love them 
the same way as they felt about me, and they never would’ve dreamt of saying to them that, 
you know, Warren gets all these opportunities and you don’t. But it just existed. 
And, you know, all my teachers in grade school, every one of them was a female. And the 
reason they were females is because they only had a few occupations open to them. 
So, as a result, I had way better teachers than I sort of deserved for the pay level that existed in 
it because all this talent was being compressed into a few areas. 
Well, a lot of improvement has been made, but there’s still a ways to go. 
And there is a pipeline effect, so I mean, you couldn’t change it all in one day if you wanted to. 
But on the other hand, that should not be an excuse for not changing at all. 
And then I also wrote about the fact that there’s — that when people are placed in that 
position, they start believing it about themselves, so they do not set their own objectives as 
high as their potential would indicate. 
And that’s — I use the example of Katharine Graham, who I knew quite well, and she was, you 
know, she was very, very intelligent. She was very high-grade. She had all kinds of good 
qualities. 
But she had been told by a mother, and she had been told by a husband, and she had been told 
by society that women couldn’t run businesses as well as men. 
And she knew it wasn’t true, but she couldn’t get rid of it. And she saw herself in this funhouse 
mirror, and it — no matter how hard you tried, you couldn’t really get rid of the funhouse 
mirror. It had just been there too long. 
And I kept saying, you know, “Look at yourself in a regular mirror, and you’ll see somebody 
who’s very smart and very high-grade and just as good as any male you’ll find.” 
Her stock went up 40-for-1 when she was CEO. She wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning 
autobiography. And to her dying day, you know, she — at one level she knew she was the equal 
of the males around her, and at another level, she couldn’t get rid of that little voice inside of 
her that came from her mother and came from all of society that said, you know, “You should 
take care of the garden and let the males do all the important work.” 
So, both the exterior obstacles— they’re crumbling to a very significant degree and they should. 
I mean, it only took thousands of years. 
I mean, as I point out in the article, we said in the Declaration of Independence, “We hold these 
truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,” but they weren’t so self-evident when 
they got around to writing the Constitution and they used a bunch of male pronouns in 
describing the presidency in Article II, or when they didn’t get around to putting a Supreme 
Court—a female Supreme Court — justice on until 1981. 
So, the country has come a long way on it. It continues to move. It’s moving in the right 
direction. 
But you know, I hope it keeps moving and moving faster, and I hope that the females that are 
laboring under these beliefs that were told to them about themselves that aren’t true, get rid of 
the funhouse mirrors and get regular mirrors. And I say all this in this article if you want to read 
it in Fortune.com. Thank you. (Applause) 
43. Berkshire is not “too big to fail” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: You’ll know why I’m asking this question in a second, and why I picked 
it. 
This question is the following: “Is Berkshire too big to fail? On the same topic — “ 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think I heard of a book by that name. Who wrote it? (Laughs) 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: “On the same topic, how do you feel about Dodd-Frank? And now that 
it’s being implemented, how is it impacting Berkshire’s insurance businesses and our 
investments in banks like Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I don’t think it’s affecting Berkshire’s insurance businesses, to my 
knowledge. I mean — we’re — we’ve had — to my knowledge, you know, we’ve never had 
anything that impinges on our activity arising from a too-big-to-fail doctrine. 
The capital ratios for large banks are being established at somewhat higher levels than smaller 
banks, and that obviously affects return on equity. 
The ratios, as I understand it, for Wells are not as high as they would be for Citi or J.P. Morgan, 
but they’re higher than they would be for a local bank in Omaha. 
And the higher the capital ratio, the lower the return on equity will be. 
I consider the banking system in the United States to be stronger than, certainly, any time in 
the last 25 years. 
Capital is dramatically higher. A lot of the — well, a very significant part — of the loans that 
were troublesome are gone. The loans that have been put on the last four or five years are far 
better. 
It’s a — I think we’ve got — the Canadian banking system is very strong, but compared to 
Europe, I think our banks — or compared to our banks of 20 years ago — I think they’re 
dramatically stronger than they were then. 
I do not worry about the banking system being the cause of the next bubble. I mean, it will be 
something else. 
I mean, we will have bubbles in capitalism. Capitalism goes to excess, and it’s because of the 
humans that operate it. 
And we will have that again, but usually you don’t get it the same way as you got it before. I 
don’t think it will be a housing boom next time. 
But, I am — you know, I feel very good about our investment in Wells Fargo. I feel very good 
about our investment in U.S. Bank. I feel very good about our investment in M&T. 
All of those are very strong banks pursuing, in my view, sound practices, and they should result 
— they should be decent investments, over time. 
They won’t earn as high a return on tangible equity, nearly as high a return as they would have 
seven or eight years ago, because the rules have been changed. And they have been changed to 
provide thicker equities, and that pulls down return on equity. 
Charlie has been known to express himself on this subject, and I’ll give him the floor. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I’m a little less optimistic about the banking system, long-term, than 
you are. 
I would like to see something more extreme, in terms of limiting bank activities. I do not see 
why massive derivative books should be mixed up with insured — deposits that are insured — 
by the country. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’m with Charlie on that. (Applause) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: The more bankers want to be like investment bankers instead of bankers, 
the worse I like it. (Applause) 
I don’t want to say more. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I get in enough trouble on the subject already. 
WARREN BUFFETT: (Laughs) I can—I can see the journalists just licking their chops over there 
waiting for Charlie to throw a thunderbolt, but he’s unusually restrained. 
44. Buffett updates his bet against hedge funds 
WARREN BUFFETT: We’re now very close to noon. 
I promised — five years ago — I wrote about five or six years ago about the inordinate costs 
that investors bear in — many investors bear in—getting sold various types of products. 
And I talked about hedge funds and private equity and all kinds — and a whole variety of things. 
The investment world has been very good at extracting a very significant percentage of the 
returns that investors get for themselves. 
So I offered to bet anyone that wanted to step up to the plate that a group of hedge funds 
would not beat an unmanaged no-load index over a ten-year period. 
And I promised — and then I got a taker, a very nice group of people. I like them. Ted Seides is 
in the group. 
So they took me up on this. So we each put about $350,000 or so into something where in ten 
years — well, we put it in zero-coupon Treasurys, which would mature and be worth a million 
dollars in ten years. 
And I promised to report on the bet every year. 
And what we did this year, interest rates fell so far that our original 700,000 or so investment 
got to be worth like 950,000 just because the five-year Treasury got so low. So there was very 
little appreciation left into it between now and five years from now when it matures. 
So, we sold the zero-coupon Treasurys and we bought Berkshire with the proceeds, and I 
guaranteed that it would be worth a million dollars. Currently it’s worth about a million-two, so 
that the charities are benefiting to some extent. 
Now, Ted has one charity, which is a very worthwhile charity. I have Girls Inc. of Omaha, which 
is a charity I selected. 
And we’ll put the — we can put the figures up on the — there as to where we stand at the 
moment. 
The hedge funds got off to a fast start, and were 13 points ahead of the index fund at the end of 
the first year. 
But the last four years — and these are funds of funds, so they really represent probably 2 or 
300, maybe, hedge funds underneath. 
But there’s two levels of fees involved. There’s the standard fees of the hedge funds, which 
probably many times are “2 and 20,“ but can be other things, and then there’s the fee of the 
fund of funds on top of it. 
So, we now are at the halfway point, and I’ll keep reporting to you every year how we do. And if 
Berkshire does well, we’ll have well over a million dollars to distribute to one of two charities. 
You might enjoy going to a website called longbets.org. That’s where — they’re the people that 
hold the money. 
And you will see that there are a number of propositions that people have wagered on, and the 
proponents and the opponent of every proposition give a short little description. Ted gave a 
description of why he thought he’d win. I gave a description of why I thought I’d win. 
But some of these are — I just can’t resist a couple of — pointing out a couple of them. You can 
see these on the web. 
But one of it is that a large collider will destroy the Earth in 10 years. Now there’s a $1,000 bet 
on that, but I’m not sure who will collect. (Laughter) 
I thought that was an interesting one. And there was one other, and then we’ll go to lunch. But 
there are a number of these that are quite interesting. 
At least one human alive in the year 2000 will still be alive in 2150. Now, that’s 148 years from 
when the bet was entered, there’s a $2,000 bet on that. 
And I hope Charlie is in contention for the — being the winner of that one. 
 
 
