“Given recent events like COVID-19 and that 2023 is two years away, would Mr. Buffett like to 
comment or revise his 2013 prediction? Did COVID-19 delay, accelerate, eliminate or not 
change it?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well (laughs), in a very limited — I mean, in a terrible way, COVID improves 
the pension position, because — if you — it’s, you know — you have less pensioners. 
But the pension situation is terrible in a great many states. It’s not so bad at the corporate level, 
and there are some multi-employer plans, obviously, that have got problems. 
But basically, it’s a terrible problem for the states — and, of course — some states — and states 
are going to go to Washington now and say, you know, we all want to get a lot of money 
because we had these terrible things happen to us during the pandemic, which they did. 
But, some of those states have enormous pension deficits, and they’ll come again if they get — 
(laughs) — if they get a check once. 
It may turn out to be a federal obligation de facto or something than a state situation. It has not 
gotten better — it has not gotten better at all, and — obviously. 
And to a certain extent, the pension managers get more and more desperate as interest rates 
go down. So, they’ll listen to almost anybody that promises them — they’ve always had that 
tendency anyway — but they’ll listen to people that promise them that they’re going to, one 
way or another, solve their problem for them. And that isn’t going to work. 
So, it’s a big, big, big problem. And of course, the real problem is — let’s just take a hypothetical 
state that has a huge pension deficit and maybe even has a cost of living factor in it, which is 
going to really be a killer. 
And you can move, if you’re an individual. Charlie won’t move to save that 500 million — he’s 
not going to move to Nevada or someplace — but you can move, if you’re an individual, to 
some degree, particularly if you’re rich and old and retired. 
And you can actually take away an asset from that kind of an environment and give it to 
another state that doesn’t really need it as much. So, you’ll get adverse selection over time. 
But if you’re a company and you put a plant there, you can’t move the plant in five or 10 or 20 
years. 
So as the taxable base of individuals falls down, simply because people select out of being a 
part of the population, you can’t select out very well as a corporation, so you have to be very 
careful and think a long time before you go into some state with a huge pension deficit and a 
declining population. Because you’re going to be the last man left, and you’re — and the 
pensions won’t go away. 
And I don’t think — well, anybody with a short-term outlook doesn’t worry about that. I mean, 
just get me past the next election, and I’m all right on that one, you know. 
But the — you know, we don’t want to be — we’re not going to say our plant’s going to be 
around for 50 years in someplace where the population gets halved and the richer part gets cut 
dramatically — even more dramatically — and we’ve still got a valuable plant there and we got 
to keep operating, and — 
We’re going — one way or another, we’re going — it’s not going to be a good place to be. 
BECKY QUICK: And we’re almost out of time, so I’ll make this last question. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That’s a good answer, Warren. It reminds me of my old Harvard law 
professor who used to say, “Let me know what your problem is, and I’ll try and make it more 
difficult for you.” (Laughter) 
36. “Strange things” have happened, but we always try not to disappoint the shareholders 
BECKY QUICK: So, this one comes from Jan Michael Ottlinger. It’s for Warren and Charlie. 
“I have one question, which is inspired by Charlie’s mantra, ‘You have to be a continuous 
learning machine.’ So, here’s my question. What’s the biggest lesson both of you learned during 
the last year?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, my biggest lesson has been to listen more to Charlie. (Laughs) 
He’s been right on some things that I’ve been wrong on. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t know. If you’re not a little confused by what’s going on, you 
don’t understand it. (Laughter) 
It is — we’re in, sort of, uncharted territory. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We enjoy, in a crazy way, actually seeing what happens. I mean, and 
— 
This has — this has made us — halfway through the movie, much more interested (laughs) in 
watching even more of — 
This is an unusual movie, but — 
We — our basic principles of, you know — we start with the fact we don’t want to disappoint 
the people who left their money with us, and things flow out of that. 
And we may disappoint people that they don’t make quite as much money as they want, but 
we don’t — 
And we’ve seen it — some strange things happen in the world in the last year, and 15 months, 
and we’ve always recognized the fact that stranger things are going to happen in the future. 
And I would say, if anything, it’s reinforced, you know, our desire — well — to figure out 
everything possible we can do to make sure that Berkshire is, 50 or 100 years from now, you 
know, every bit the organization and then some that it is now. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, of course that’s the idea. I think it’s pretty likely to work. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well, we wouldn’t have spent 55 years at it unless we did. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
And Becky, is that — is that the last question? 
BECKY QUICK: That’s the last question. 
37. Formal meeting begins 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, well, in that case, we’ll move on to the meeting. 
The other three fellows here can leave. It’s not going to be that exciting, but we’ve got a script 
here, even, somewhat. I don’t like scripts, but they — (laughs) — not my nature. 
And one of the proposers for the two items on the proxy is here in the building to present his 
argument personally, and the other one has recorded it. 
So, we’ll get to that in just a minute, but — 
We offered both of — I mean, they either could record or come, and I’m happy one of them 
came. 
So here we go, and the meeting will now come to order. 
I am Warren Buffett — not that you didn’t know by this time (laughs) — chairman of the board 
of directors of the company. 
