And I said then, “If the market continues to advance in 2013, our streak of five-year wins will 
end.” 
I didn’t say it might end, or could end, or anything. It was obvious that if you have five strong 
years in a row, we will not beat the S&P. And that will be true in the future, for sure. 
And of course, last year was — I think there were two years in the last 40 or so that the market 
was up more than it was last year. So, despite the things mentioned about President Obama, 
the stock market seems to have done quite well. 
We will underperform in very strong up years. We’ll probably, more or less, match in moderate 
up years. We’ll do better than average in even years or down years. 
And I have said, and I’ll continue to say, and it’s been true that over any cycle, we will — I think 
we will overperform. But there’s no guarantee on that. 
But it was clearly said — like I say, on the first page of the 2012 report — that if the market 
went up, we would have a five-year streak of underperformance. And that’s exactly what 
happened. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, we should remember that Warren’s standard talks about net worth of 
Berkshire increasing, after full corporate taxes, at roughly 35 percent. And the indexes aren’t 
paying any taxes. 
And so, Warren has set a ridiculously tough standard and has so far met it over a long period of 
time. 
In the last couple of years, the net worth of Berkshire, after full corporation income taxes, went 
up, what, 60? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Something like that, yeah — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: $60 billion — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Pre-tax, probably 90 billion in — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. And so, if this is failure, I want more of it. (Laughter and applause) 
11. “Eager” to buy back shares at 120% of book value 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Jay Gelb. 
JAY GELB: Warren, this question is on Berkshire’s intrinsic value. 
In the annual letter, you appear to strongly signal that Berkshire’s shares are undervalued, 
especially relative to intrinsic value. 
Aside from share buybacks, what actions can Berkshire take to narrow the discount between 
the current share price and intrinsic value? For example, would you ever consider an IPO of 
Berkshire’s individual operating units? 
WARREN BUFFETT: The answer to the last part is no. 
But the — I think we try to explain —my guess is I’ve never seen an annual report that uses the 
term, “intrinsic value,” or even talks about the intrinsic value of its units or business, as much as 
Berkshire does. 
So, Charlie and I really devote considerable effort to explaining which of our businesses — 
where there’s really a significant discrepancy between what carrying value is, or book value — 
call it carrying value — and the true value, or the intrinsic value, of the business. 
And I got very specific in the case of GEICO in the past year, for example. 
And I said that GEICO, which is carried at about 1 billion over tangible assets, may be worth as 
much as 20 billion over tangible assets. And I wouldn’t be surprised if five years or ten years 
from now that that figure itself will be a lot larger. 
So we’ve talked about it. We said we are willing to buy — not only willing, but eager to buy — 
stock at 120 percent of book value. 
Well, with book value being close to 230 billion now, that obviously means we think that at $45 
billion, roughly, over that figure, we are getting a bargain, in relation to intrinsic value. 
But we’re never going to try and put out an exact number because we don’t know an exact 
number. 
And it’s — A, it changes from day to day. And — although not a lot day to day, but certainly 
changes, you know, over the quarters and over the years. 
And the second reason is, if you ask Charlie and me to write down a figure as we sit here as to 
the intrinsic value of Berkshire, we’d probably be within 5 percent of each other. 
But we might very — we probably would not be within 1 percent of each other. 
And so we will continue to try to give shareholders information about the important units. 
It isn’t — the small ones are not unimportant to us, but they are — they do not have a big 
impact on the overall intrinsic value. 
We’ve got a few businesses. I mean, we have some businesses that may be carried at a few 
hundred million that might be worth a billion or maybe 2 billion, even. 
But that isn’t where the big, undisclosed by the balance sheet, values are. 
You know, they’re in the railroad, they’re in the insurance business, they’re in our utility 
business. 
And we — they add up to some pretty big numbers. We try to tell you exactly the numbers and, 
really, and use the words that we use when we’re thinking about those businesses ourselves, in 
terms of estimating their value. But we don’t want to go further than that. 
The 120 percent, obviously, is a loud shoutout as to a figure that we think is very significantly 
below intrinsic value, or we wouldn’t use it to repurchase shares. 
We only believe in repurchasing shares when we can do so at a significant discount from 
intrinsic value. 
Some companies talk about — Coca-Cola does — they talk about buying in shares to cover 
options. That actually isn’t the best reason to buy in shares. 
I mean, the stock could be overpriced, and even though you issued on options, you shouldn’t be 
buying it in. 
But that’s become sort of a mantra throughout corporate America, that if you buy shares to 
cover the option exercises that you’ve negated the dilution to shareholders. 
But again, if you buy shares — if you buy a dollar bill for 90 cents, you’re doing your 
shareholders a favor. And if you buy it for $1.10, you are doing them no favor at all. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t believe we’ve ever wanted to get the stock way over intrinsic 
value so that we can issue it to other people and get an advantage for ourselves and a 
disadvantage for them. 
And, I think the people that want the stock up very close to intrinsic value, or higher, really 
want egg in their beer. It’s okay if it’s a little below. 
And we’re not in the game of ballooning our stock up as high as we can get it so we can issue it 
more at a profit to ourselves. 
I think over the long term, our system will work pretty well. And I think the stock will eventually 
go above intrinsic value, whether we like it or not. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. But we have — we really watched a lot over the years of certain 
managers attempting to get their stock to sell for way more than it was worth, so they could 
use it to trade for other companies. I mean, that was all the rage in the late ’60s. 
One of the reasons that I wound up my partnership was that that activity was going on so much 
and it affected all other values. 
And it was really a game. And it was a game that some people played sort of halfway honestly, 
and other people really cheated like crazy, because if you’re trying to get your stock to be 
overpriced, you’re very likely to cheat on your earnings and cheat on projections. Cheat on 
everything. 
And it works, incidentally. It doesn’t work indefinitely, but it works. 
Some companies, whose names you know, were, to some extent, built on that principle. 
That’s a game that we not only don’t want to play, we really found it very distasteful, because 
we saw a lot of these people in action. 
And it comes in waves. And we just — we don’t want to come close to playing it. 
Unless I’m careful, Charlie will name names, so we’d better move on to shareholders. 
(Laughter) 
12. Why sellers trust Berkshire with the companies they’ve built 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, let’s go to station number 2. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Mr. Buffett— 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: — and Mr. Munger. 
My name is Masato Luso (PH) and I’m from Los Angeles, California. 
Berkshire is known to buy into whole companies for many, many years. But earlier in your 
careers, that was not known. 
And typically, acquisitions of other companies is very disruptive. Employees fear losing their 
jobs as a redundancy. And managers really have to think twice and be diligent about it. 
So my question is, what do you do to gain the trust of founders or owners of the companies you 
have bought out in the past? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we’ve kept our word to them. 
And now we have to be very careful about what we promise, because we can’t promise, for 
example, never to have a layoff in a business we buy, because who knows what the world 
holds. 
But we can promise that we won’t sell their business, for example, if it turns out to be 
disappointing, as long as it doesn’t run into the prospect of continuing losses or having 
significant labor problems. 
But we keep — we are keeping — certain businesses that you would not get a passing grade at 
business school on if you wrote down our reasons for keeping them. 
But the reason is, we made a promise. 
And we put that — we not only make the promise, we put it in the back of the annual report 
now — we’ve done it for 30 years or so — where we list the economic principles. 
And we put it there because we believe it. But we put it there, also, so that the managers who 
sell us their— the owners who sell us their business — know they can count on it. 
And if we behave differently, you know, the word would get around. And it should get around. 
So, we can make promises. We can’t make promises we’ll never change employment. We can’t 
even make a promise that we’ll keep a business forever. 
But we can promise what we do promise, which is that if it turns out to be somewhat 
disappointing on earnings, but does not promise, sort of, unending losses, or if we have labor 
problems, we can keep that promise. 
And we have kept that promise. We’ve only had to get rid of a few businesses, including our 
original textile business. 
We promise the managers, you know, that they are going to continue to run their businesses. 
And believe me, if we didn’t do it, the word would get around on that very quickly. But we’ve 
been doing it now for 49 years. 
And we’ve put ourselves in a class that is hard for other people to compete with, if that’s 
important to the seller of a business. 
A private equity firm is going to be totally unimpressed by what’s in the back of our annual 
report. They don’t care. And that’s — there’s nothing wrong with that. That’s their business. 
But for somebody that’s built up their company over 20 or 30 or 40 years — and maybe their 
father or grandfather built it up even before that — some of those people care about where 
their businesses go. 
They’re very rich, they’ve accomplished all kinds of things in life. And they don’t want to build 
up something which somebody else tears apart very quickly believe they handing it over to a 
few MBAs who want to show their stuff. 
So, we do have a unique — close to a unique — asset at Berkshire. And as long as we behave 
properly, we will maintain that asset. And really, no one else will have much luck in competing 
with us. 
But it doesn’t solve all problems, but — and it — and frankly, it’s the way we want to operate 
anyway. 
So it’s — we’re comfortable with it. The sellers that do come to us that care about their 
businesses are comfortable with it. And I think it’ll continue to work well. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, obviously, we behave the way we do because we like doing it. And 
number two, it’s worked pretty well and we’re unlikely to stop. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. (Applause) 
You can tell that he doesn’t get paid by the word. (Laughter) 
13. “Social dynamics” weaken oversight by corporate boards 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Warren. This is a tough corporate governance question. I probably 
received about a dozen of them this week, some polite and some less polite. This — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Use one of the polite ones. 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: This is probably one of the more polite ones. 
“Your son Howard serves on the board of Coke and voted to support its CEO pay package 
proposal, which you have said was excessive and you were against. 
“You have said Howard will become non-executive chairman of Berkshire after you step down, 
as its, quote, ‘protector of culture,’ to uphold the morals that you and we all hold so dear. 
Given his role in the Coke vote, how can we count on Howard to defend the culture of 
Berkshire and ensure that the future management of Berkshire does not benefit at the expense 
of its shareholders?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I think, as I mentioned in at least one interview, I voted for not 
— I’m not referring to Coke here necessarily — but as a director of various companies, I not 
only voted for comp plans that were far from what I would’ve come up myself, but I voted for 
acquisitions that I didn’t think make much sense. 
I voted against a few. And they attracted a lot of attention. But they were big ones, where I 
really think — where I thought — it really made a difference. 
But the nature — and this is something worth exploring, generally, because the nature of 
boards is such that they’re part business organizations and part social organizations. And 
people behave in some ways with their business brain and they behave to some extent with 
their social brain. 
And I would say — and I said this — that in 55 years of being on corporate boards, and 19 
companies aside from Berkshire, I don’t think I’ve ever seen a comp committee report come in 
and get a dissenting vote. 
And the social reason for that is that the board organizes itself in a way whereby certain 
activities are delegated to a smaller portion of the board, one being a compensation 
committee. 
And that committee presumably meets for a few hours the day before the meeting, or maybe 
the morning of the meeting. And then they go into a board meeting. And the comp committee 
reports on its activities. And you’ve delegated that activity, as a board member, to that group. 
It’s almost unheard of to question that. I’m not saying that maybe it shouldn’t be questioned, 
but I’m just saying that that is the way it works. 
Now bear in mind that the so-called independent directors on such a board are probably 
receiving maybe $200,000 a year, maybe $300,000 a year. Believe me, they are not 
independent. 
They’re independent as measured by some standards, perhaps, at the SEC, but they — you 
know, how would you feel about having a job that required you to go to work four or six times a 
year, pleasant company, you know, certain amount of prestige attached with it, and on top of 
it, you get paid maybe $300,000 a year and you kind of hope to get another job like that? That 
is not independence. 
So, you get a group coming in like that from the comp committee. And in those 19 boards, I was 
put on the comp committee exactly once. Charlie might be able to tell you exactly what the 
result was that time. They do not look for Dobermans. (Laughter) 
They look for cocker spaniels. And then they make sure that the tails are wagging. (Laughter) 
But that is — don’t condemn it too much because you and I are doing similar things in other 
parts of our lives. 
You know, the social dynamics are important in board actions. My son Howard — in fact, my 
other two children as well, if they were involved — you know, they would have a dedication, 
and do have a dedication, to the culture of Berkshire, which is clearly defined. It’s one of the 
reasons I want it clearly defined. And it’s reinforced by the behavior and it’s reinforced by 
results. 
And, incidentally, their job would not be to set the compensation. I mean, the non-executive 
board chairman is not there to select the compensation of the CEO or others. He’s not there to 
select the CEO. 
He is there to facilitate a change if the board of directors decides a change is needed. And that 
can be important. Very, very, very unlikely to be important in the case of Berkshire. 
But it’s a nice, little, extra safety valve. And Howie’s the perfect guy to carry that out. 
And like I say, I voted for comp plans at various places, including way back, you know, at Coke 
that were far from what I would’ve designed myself. And the ones I designed myself would 
have worked. 
But that is the way boards work. 
I was made chairman of one comp committee, and Charlie can tell you a little about that. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. (Laughter) 
Warren was totally voted down at Salomon Inc. In fact, people acted like, what in the hell is he 
doing? How could he be disapproving compensation on Wall Street? 
And I think the general idea that a person should just shout disapproval all day long of 
everything he disapproves of is very suspect. In the world in which we inhabit, people 
accomplish more if they pick their spots for public disapproval. 
And knowing both Howie and Warren Buffett, I don’t think you have to worry that they’re going 
to go crazy or be soft and foolish just because they don’t shout all the time about everything 
they disapprove of. If we all did that, we wouldn’t be able to hear each other. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Applause) 
If you — if you’re in any social organization and you keep belching at the dinner table, you’ll be 
eating in the kitchen before very long. (Laughter) 
And people won’t pay any attention to you. 
I mean, you really have to — you not only have to pick your spots, you have to pick how you do 
it. 
I mean, you — that could even be — I mean, sure, Charlie gives the marital advice around here, 
as you noticed, in the movie, but it’s not even a bad thought to keep in mind in marriage, I 
mean, in terms of — of attempting to change the behavior of others, which is — you’ll have a 
very limited ability to do, in any event. It’s not helped by shouting a lot. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I offend more people than you do. And I’m quite satisfied with your level of 
disapproval. (Laughter) 
14. Everyone else is wrong on cost of capital 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Gregg Warren of Morningstar. Gregg, welcome. 
GREGG WARREN: Thank you. Warren and Charlie, on behalf of Morningstar, I want to thank you 
for having us on the panel this year. 
I may not be an accredited bear, but hopefully, I ask probing questions that add value for 
shareholders. 
My first question relates to the measurement of management performance. 
For Morningstar, the ultimate measure of success is not just whether or not a firm can earn 
more than its cost of capital, but whether or not it can do so for an extended period of time. 
Berkshire has historically done a good job of generating outsized returns. But as you’ve noted in 
the past, the sheer size of the firm’s operations, which continue to grow, will ultimately limit 
the returns that Berkshire could generate. 
With that in mind, what do you believe Berkshire’s cost of capital is? How much do you think 
that this hurdle rate is increased as you’ve acquired more capital intensive, debt-heavy firms? 
And how much confidence do you have that future capital allocators at Berkshire will be able to 
generate returns in excess of the firm’s cost of capital, acknowledging, of course, the fact that 
Berkshire’s days of outsized returns are most likely behind it? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, there’s no question that size is an anchor to performance. And 
we intend to prove that up to the point where it starts really biting. 
But it — we cannot earn the returns on capital with well over 200 — well, with a market cap of 
300-plus billion. It just isn’t doable. 
Archimedes, he said he could move the world if he had a long enough lever, didn’t he, or 
something like that, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes, he did. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I wish I had his lever because we don’t have that lever at Berkshire. 
So we — well, we’ll answer two questions there. 
In terms of cost of capital, Charlie and I always figure that our cost of capital is the — is what 
could be produced by our second best idea. And then our best idea has to exceed that. 
We think — I have listened to so many nonsensical cost of capital discussions, that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve never heard an intelligent one. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Yeah. (Laughter) 
It’s really true. I mean, and there’s — that’s another thing. I’ve been on boards and the CFO 
comes in and explains why we’re doing this and it always gets down to, you know, it exceeds 
our cost of capital. 
And he doesn’t know what the hell his cost of capital is, and I don’t know. And — but I don’t 
embarrass him, you know? 
So I just sit there and listen to this stuff and apply my own thing, and then still end up voting for 
it, probably, if I don’t like it, although there have been a few exceptions to that. 
The real test, you know, over time, is whether the capital we retain produces more than a dollar 
of market value as we go along. 
And if we keep putting billions in and those billions, in effect, are worth, in terms of present 
value terms, in terms of what they add to the value of the business, more than what we’re 
putting in, you know, we’ll keep doing it. 
We bought a company day before yesterday, I guess it was. And we are spending close to $3 
billion U.S. It’s a Canadian company. 
And we think we will be better off financially because we did that and we thought it was the 
best thing that we could do with the $3 billion on that day. And those are the yardsticks that we 
have. 
And what I do know is that I’ve never seen a CEO who wanted to do a deal where the CFO 
didn’t come in and say it exceeded the cost of capital. 
It’s just — it’s a game, as far as we’re concerned. 
And we think we can evaluate businesses. And we know the capital we have available. And we 
have things that we can sell to buy. Not businesses, but marketable securities that we can sell 
to buy businesses if we like. 
And we are constantly measuring that opportunity cost that Charlie talked about in the movie. 
It’s an important subject. And one that I think has had more nonsense written about it than 
about anything. 
But I’ll turn it over to Charlie to go over — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, a phrase like “cost of capital,” which means different things to 
different people, and often means silly things to people who teach in business schools, we just 
don’t use it. 
Warren’s definition of behaving in a corporation, so that every dollar retained tends to create 
more than a dollar of market value for the shareholders, is probably the best way of describing 
cost of capital. That is not what they mean in business schools. 
The answer’s perfectly simple. We’re right and they’re wrong. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I look good compared to him, don’t I? (Laughter) 
15. Buying Nebraska Furniture Mart from the Blumkins 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Jonathan Fye (PH) and I’m from Denton, 
Texas, just up the road from the new Nebraska Furniture Mart that’s going to be located in The 
Colony. 
My question relates to your original acquisition of that business from the Blumkin family in 
1983. 
Based on the data you provided in this year’s annual report, it appears you were able to 
purchase this business for roughly 85 percent of book value, or roughly two times earnings. 
Can you comment on the factors or the environment in Omaha that enabled you to purchase 
this wonderful business for such a wonderful price? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I wish we had bought it that cheap, Jonathan, but no — we paid at the 
time, as I remember, probably 11 or 12 times after-tax earnings. It was not a discount from 
book value. 
I’m not sure where those numbers come. Well, we bought 80 percent of the company. It was 
bought on the basis, as I remember, of 100 —of $60 million of purchase price. 
So we —actually there was a second transaction involved in it. But 60 million was 100 percent 
value. We ended up with 80 percent. 
The 60 million would’ve been more than book at the time. Not way more, but more than book. 
And it would’ve been a multiple of 11 or 12 times earnings, as I remember. The sales were 
about 100 million. Pre-tax margins were in the 7 percent range. 
So, it was about 7 million pre-tax. And, you know, 4 ½, probably, after-tax. That’s ballpark. 
So, it was not a bargain purchase. It was a great business. It was a wonderful opportunity to join 
as fine a family as I’ve ever met. 
But it was — and incidentally, there was another company, I believe, from Germany, that was 
trying to buy it at the time. 
And believe it or not, Erskine Bowles, of Simpson-Bowles, was representing them, my friend 
Erskine — I didn’t know this at the time. 
And then I went out on my birthday, August 30th, 1983. And had that contract, which is in the 
annual report. 
And I gave it to Mrs. B. And — and she didn’t read, but Louie, her son, told her what was in it. 
And I never asked her for an audit. I just asked her if she owed any money. And I asked her if 
she owned the building. And she said yes. And we made the deal. But it was not a bargain 
purchase. 
Now, if you want to talk about bargain purchases, we should talk about going out to the 
Nebraska Furniture Mart. (Laughter) 
So far, in the three — we —in the days of this annual meeting, our sales, which were a record 
40 million for the week last year, are up about — I think they’re up about 7 percent now. And 
last year, of course, it was a record. 
And on Tuesday, which was the first day, we did 7.8 million. 
And Berkshire owns the largest home furnishing store in Sacramento, California. We own the 
largest one in Boise, Idaho. We own the largest one in Salt Lake City. We own the largest one in 
Las Vegas. Largest one in Reno. 
Our sales at the Furniture Mart on Tuesday were larger than the monthly sales of any one of 
those stores I’ve just named, being the largest ones in places like Sacramento. So it is a 
remarkable organization. (Applause) 
And the good news is there’s still time for you to avail yourself of those prices. (Laughter) 
I would like to put in a plug for the Dallas store, where — I was down there a week ago. And it’s 
a plot of land like you wouldn’t believe. It’s a store like you wouldn’t believe. It is 1,800,000 
square feet under one roof. Over 40 acres. 
It will do more volume, I predict, than any other home furnishing store in the world. And I 
wouldn’t be surprised if I could add to that by a factor of at least two. 
It’s a remarkable store. And I toured around it. And we’re, you know, we’re putting in streets. 
We’re — site preparation, utilities, racking, all these things. This wonderful woman, Michelle, 
who showed me around. 
And the Blumkins later told me that she had started — worked for Nebraska Furniture Mart as a 
cashier, and she is in charge of this, you know, many hundreds of millions of dollar project. It’s 
really — it’s the good thing about America. 
And at the end of the tour, she’d had this number two person working — walking around with 
us, who — she was explaining some things to us, too. And I learned at the end of the tour that 
number two was Michelle’s husband. (Laughter) 
Interesting pillow talk, you know? “How many cubic yards did you move today, honey,” you 
know? (Laughter) 
16. Why Buffett recommends an index fund for his wife’s inheritance 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Carol. 
CAROL LOOMIS: This question comes from Jason Rothman (PH) of Oklahoma City, who was the 
first shareholder to ask a question that subsequently was framed by a number of other 
shareholders as well. 
In my mailbox, this was the most popular question asked. 
“Mr. Buffett, you state in your annual letter to shareholders that in your will you have given 
instructions to the trustee who will be acting for your wife’s benefit to put 10 percent of the 
cash given her in short-term government bonds and 90 percent in a very low-cost S&P 500 
index fund. 
“My question is why are you advising the trustee to put 90 percent of the cash into an S&P 500 
index fund instead of into Berkshire shares?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well — 
CAROL LOOMIS: “This might imply that you expect the index fund to outperform Berkshire in 
the future when the company is run by a new CEO and chairman. Please clarify.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I’ll be glad to clarify. That letter didn’t come from Vanguard, by any 
chance, did — (Laughter) 
When I die, incidentally, then all the Berkshire shares I have at that point will go to five different 
foundations. Every single share. I mean, there are no shares that have not been designated, 
mentally, to charity. A good many of them have been designated specifically to — in numbers 
and all that. 
But — and they will be distributed over the ten years after my estate is closed. So figure over 12 
years. 
And I tell my — I tell the trustees that will be holding these shares, you know, “Don’t sell any 
Berkshire shares until they have to be sold.” 
So my views, on Berkshire at least through 12 years after my death are as bullish as anybody 
could possibly come up with. 
And incidentally, without those kind of instructions, anybody would say, “You know, you’re 
crazy to keep many, many billions of dollars all in one stock.” I can’t think of anything better to 
do it over those 12 years. 
In terms of my wife’s situation, you know, that is not a question of maximizing capital. It’s just a 
question of total, 100 percent peace of mind on something that cannot get a bad result. 
And, like I said, there’s way more money for her than she’ll ever use. As a matter of fact, those 
of you who know her, you know, may feel that I’ve added about three zeros too many. 
But it is not designed for her to get even larger amounts of capital. And there’ll be capital, loads 
of capital left over on that part of it. 
On the part that I care about maximizing, I have instructed the three trustees to not sell a single 
share until it has to be sold. So, that’s good for 12 years after I die, as to my best advice as to 
what I want them to hold. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, Warren is a little peculiar in the way he distributes money in the 
family. And I think he’s entitled to do what he damn pleases. (Applause) 
Speaking — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do I — do I hear my — children applauding? Do I hear my children 
applauding? (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And I’ve never had this feeling I had to starve the family down to a few 
trifles. 
And Warren really — and Susie, when she was alive, was the same way. 
He really is a meritocrat. He’s really quite extreme in wanting to let most of his money go back 
to the civilization in which it was earned. 
I like being associated with it. (Applause) 
17. BNSF service problems are hurting earnings 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan? 
JONATHAN BRANDT: The BNSF has done very well since Berkshire acquired it in 2010. 
But its western competition of Union Pacific has actually grown its earnings more. And at the 
moment, the UP seems to be operating more smoothly for its customers. 
Could you shed some light on the service challenges Burlington has experienced recently and 
perhaps discuss any differences between the two railroads in end markets, geography, and 
strategy that may have led to the divergent result? 
Would it be fair to say that, in trying to aggressively sign up new business volume last year, that 
the railroad did not allow for a sufficient margin of safety in terms of what its capacity could 
handle, should there be a harsher than normal winter or other adverse circumstances? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It — we’ve handled more volume, actually, than in the past. I mean, in 
2006, we had a peak of 219,000 carloads. That was in the late fall. 
But no question that we’ve had a lot of service problems, particularly on our northern route. 
We have been spending more money than Union Pacific, and they spend a lot, in terms of 
attempting to anticipate the kind of problems that can occur when you get a big increase in 
volume, on that one route particularly, from the boom in the — particularly the Bakken shale 
oil. 
We’ve got a lot of unit trains that are running over those lines that weren’t running five years 
ago. 
I think I’ve got Matt Rose here — right — I think somewhere in the front. And he might address 
some of the problems of cold weather. I mean, want to get — there were a lot of days where it 
was 15 below or worse. 
And in terms of sending people out to work on problems, under those circumstances, it can be 
really — it can be life threatening. 
But Matt, do you have — oh, there he is. OK. Could you shine a light down on him, please, too? 
So he’s right here in the front. In the front. 
MATT ROSE: Warren. So last year, the industry grew at about 820,000 units. BNSF handled 53 
percent of all those units. 
And it’s not what we wanted to take or what we didn’t want to take. Quite frankly, it’s the 
geographic nature of our franchise. And the oil came a lot faster than we were expecting and 
we’ve been spending money at a rapid clip to try and build into it. 
The second issue was, you know, I had previously, prior to this past year, been in the CEO role 
for 13 years, and I have never seen a weather — a winter weather — like that. 
We had 83 inches of snow in Chicago. We had multiple days, over 30 days, where it didn’t get 
to zero in the Minnesota area. 
So, you know, we know this is an outdoor sport. We get it, on the weather. But quite frankly, 
when we get to about 0 to 10 degrees below, things just don’t work. 
The weather’s getting better. Last week, we handled 206,000 units. No other railroad has ever 
handled 205,000 units. 
So the railroad’s coming back. And we’re making the significant investments to be able to 
handle all the business that’s out there. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thanks, Matt. (Applause) 
We will spend $5 billion on the railroad this year. No railroad’s ever spent that kind of money, 
or even very close to it. 
But I got a call — or I got a letter — from a fellow in North Dakota. And they were having a 
problem getting fertilizer. And I called and talked to him. And they sent it down to Matt. 
But we’ve now put on — I think we’re going to have 52 unit trains of fertilizer. And they will get 
there in time for the planting. And that’s important. I mean, we take it seriously. 
But cold in winter or floods in the summer, I mean, we’re now really functioning a lot better 
and our earnings will be, in my view, are very likely to be a lot better. 
But the thing that could disrupt that is, if for some reason, you had incredible floods. You’re 
dealing with 22,000 miles of track. And if you get weak links, one of which, always, for all four 
big railroads, is Chicago, because that’s where things get interchanged and that’s where a lot of 
bottlenecks have been this year, and that’s where weather was tough as well. 
But you’re right, Jon, in the comparative financials in recent months. And believe me, Matt’s 
paying a lot of attention to them and Carl’s paying a lot of attention to them, and I even pay a 
little attention to them. 
So I have a feeling that they will be getting better over the remainder of the year. 
18. Generating electricity with natural gas 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, station 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Rosal Kerkhove (PH). I’m from Omaha, Nebraska. My question relates to 
our company’s use of natural gas to generate electricity. 
This past winter, natural gas in storage has declined substantially. 
In the future, how do our companies assure that they have an adequate supply of natural gas to 
generate electricity? 
And if the price of natural gas increases in multiples, how do our companies assure that they 
can sell the electricity at a satisfactory return on investment? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We have — I’m going to ask Greg Abel to be more specific on this. 
But we are the largest alternative generator of — using alternative sources — I think, in the 
country. And I think by the end of 2015, we will be capable of producing 40 percent of our 
needs in Iowa through wind, which will be unlike any other company you can find in the 
country. (Applause) 
But I think I’ll have Greg answer the specifics of any natural gas-dependent generating units we 
have. 
I’m not worried about that thing, but I — about what you raised —but Greg would know a lot 
more about the mix on natural gas and the opportunity to shift to coal. And exactly the profile 
of the generating capacity. 
Greg? Now, let’s get a light down on him, if you can. He — 
GREG ABEL: I think it’s — okay, there it is. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, there we go — 
GREG ABEL: Yup. Sorry. So like Matt touched on, obviously, we had a very cold winter in the 
Midwest. 
So our systems, for the first time, were challenged in a significant way. But very proud of how 
the resources were managed. 
So if you look at the question around natural gas, and specifically the gas availability, there was 
substantial gas available to be utilized both to heat homes and produce the energy, because 
ultimately, we’re worried about both, the — keeping the furnaces on and, equally, keeping the 
lights on. 
So when you looked at the balance of supply, there was gas there. 
But clearly, we have to continue to look at the unique situation as we continue to move 
towards using more gas in the United States. 
Warren touched on an important point. This past year, as he highlighted — he highlighted 2015 
— but if you look at just what we produced on the renewable side in Iowa, that was 39 percent 
renewable, i.e. wind. And that’ll only get larger. 
So as we continue to manage these multiple resources, there’s clearly a way to meet the needs 
of our customers. And we’re meeting it in an extremely cost-effective fashion. 
I’d also highlight that when you think through the cost recovery side of it, we’ve got very 
unique mechanisms within our utilities. 
When the underlying cost of gas goes up, where we have to purchase more than we had 
anticipated, we’ve got clear pass-throughs back to our customers. And we’ve negotiated those 
across each of our states. 
So we’re well positioned to service our customers long term, and equally protect the 
fundamental financials of the underlying businesses. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The — 
GREG ABEL: Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The company that Greg runs has many subsidiaries. And our gas pipeline 
subsidiaries move about 8 percent of the gas in the United States. 
And I think you said you were from Omaha. And the gas that comes into this area comes 
through a pipeline that we own. And we just renamed the company to Berkshire Hathaway 
Energy, from MidAmerican Energy. We changed it to Berkshire Hathaway Energy. 
But, it’s a point of some pride to us that that company, Northern Natural Gas, which originally 
came from Omaha, when we bought that from Enron a decade or so ago — actually, Dynegy 
had it in between — but its origin then was Enron. 
You know, they’d skimped on maintenance, done all kinds of things. And it was ranked number 
42 out of the 42 ranked pipelines in the United States at that time. And last year it was ranked 
number one. 
So it went from last to first under Greg’s management. And I tip my hat to him. (Applause) 
And number two was our other pipeline — current pipeline. So we’re running one, two at the 
moment. 
19. Two heads running Berkshire are better than one 
WARREN BUFFETT: Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Fred Ireman (PH) in Richmond, Virginia, and it’s 
addressed to you, Warren. 
He says that, “During the past several years, much has been written and many have speculated 
about your successor. I shall not even go down that path, as it would cause you to repeat 
yourself. 
“However, has there been any discussion at your board meetings about a replacement for your 
partner, longtime friend, and co-chairman, Charlie Munger? 
“Has it been determined Berkshire will continue to be led by a similar dynamic duo? Two 
magnificent investor minds, each providing a unique point of view, have been a major reason 
the business has performed magnificently over the decades and has delighted the 
shareholders.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, Charlie is my — he’s my canary in the coal mine. (Laughter) 
Charlie turned 90. And I find it very encouraging how well he’s handling middle age. (Laughter) 
So I hope to be able to do the same thing myself. 
No — you raised a point, which is — I hadn’t thought about, but I’m a little sensitive now that 
you raised it. 
They always talk about replacing me, but they never talking about replacing Charlie. 
I do think — I think it’s very likely, incidentally, that whoever replaces me as CEO probably has, 
over the years certainly, developed — they’ll never be able to develop another Charlie — but 
they’ll develop somebody that they work with very closely. It’s a great way to operate. 
Berkshire is better off because the two of us have worked together than if either one of us had 
been working individually, there’s no question about that. (Applause) 
And —but I do think, you know, we saw it with Roberto Goizueta and Don Keough at Coke, we 
saw it with Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Cap Cities. I mean, these were magnificent 
companies. 
And I think that in both cases that I just named, I think that they accomplished far more 
because they had two incredible people running them who admired and worked well with the 
other. And they were complimentary, in terms of the talents they brought. 
In many ways, it’s a great way to operate. You can’t will it to somebody. 
But I would be very surprised if, a few years after my successor takes over, or maybe sooner, 
that there isn’t some relationship, a partnership, that enhances the CEO’s not only — not only 
achievements — but the fun they have. 
And — but so far, nobody’s brought up, in the meeting, any successor to Charlie. 
And frankly, I have a lot of trouble thinking of anybody that could be a successor to Charlie. 
(Laughs) 
Charlie, you want to comment? I’ve got to give you a chance. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think the world has much to worry about. Most 90-year-old men are 
gone soon enough. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the canary has spoken. OK. (Laughter) 
20. Subsidiary shuffles aren’t related to Berkshire succession plans 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jay? 
JAY GELB: I have a question on succession planning, as well. 
Matt Rose recently shifted his role from CEO of the Burlington Northern unit, to executive 
chairman of Burlington. Does this change affect who will be the next CEO of Berkshire? And 
what is the succession plan for Ajit Jain at Berkshire’s reinsurance unit? 
WARREN BUFFETT: The only succession for Ajit would be reincarnation. (Laughter) 
We will not get another Ajit. But fortunately, we won’t have to for a very, very long time. 
The situation with Matt, which was at Matt’s suggestion, was designed to fit specifically the 
succession situation at BNSF and the wishes of certain people. It doesn’t have any implications 
for Berkshire. 
I have letters from every one of our managers telling me what I should — I keep — these are 
private, I don’t share these with the board, even — telling me what I should do if something 
happens to them tonight. 
So I have their ideas. In some cases, they talk about more than one person. In some cases, they 
tell me the strengths and weaknesses of the people. 
But the — I would not try to make any judgments about the succession plans at the parent 
company from what is done in terms of succession planning at any of the subsidiaries. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I always say, I’m not the least bit worried about it. If I — I wish my 
main problem in life was the fear about succession problems at Berkshire. I think we’re in very 
good shape. 
21. “Great” question, but no answer 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 5. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I am Bill Melby from Northfield, Minnesota. 
At the 2009 annual meeting, Mr. Buffett, you said that if you were required to invest your total 
net worth in one company, that that company would be Wells Fargo. 
