And over the past four or five years, the stock price has remained rather steady, and I’ve 
withstood the year 2000, when friends were making 50 percent and I was losing 50 percent on 
my investment. 
But I have to admit, when I read your Fortune article last year and you referred to the stock 
price as expensive, I felt badly. 
Now I spend my days sometimes having fun, figuring out the value of Berkshire Hathaway. 
But at night after that comment I could also wake up in worry and fret. And I realize you talked, 
recently, a lot about the qualitative and quantitative aspects of things. 
And I guess I would like you, with your self-reflective position, and knowing that I’m asking you 
to do something like maybe talking about your breathing, what went into that comment to call 
the stock price expensive, in terms of your weights and measures? 
What price, what value? What do you think about the company and its stock price when you 
say it’s expensive? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think if you — I don’t remember the exact wording of that article, but I’m 
quite sure that I told the author of that article, and I’m almost positive it was in the article, that 
said I thought it was more attractive than owning the general market or the S&P. 
So I was saying that I preferred it to the general market. I’m certainly happy having 99 and a 
large fraction percent of my net worth in it. I’ve never sold a share, I am not the least bit 
uncomfortable about holding it until the day I die, and quite a bit thereafter. (Laughter) 
But I have not thought stocks were cheap at all for some time. And I’ve never wanted to 
encourage anybody, particularly in the last few years, to buy Berkshire or any other stock 
because — the market — I felt that the — you know, I felt we had a great bubble. 
And you know, I think Berkshire’s value has improved — I think Charlie does, too, fairly 
significantly — in recent years. 
And I would — if I had a chance to swap, tax-free, my Berkshire for the S&P 500, or for any 
mutual fund or anything, you know, I wouldn’t even give it a thought. But that does not mean I 
think, you know, either Berkshire or stocks are cheap. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add to that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I don’t think we’ve ever recommended the purchase or sale of Berkshire, 
that I can remember. We did say at one time we would repurchase shares, which has a certain 
underlying message to it. 
And we said at other times we wouldn’t buy shares. That doesn’t mean we’d sell shares at all, 
but we wouldn’t have bought them under the prevailing conditions. 
But we have stayed away from recommending, actually not only the purchase or sale, not only 
of Berkshire, but just of any other specific shares. 
We’ve only given our views, occasionally, on what we think about the level of the stock market, 
generally. 
But I do think, if you go back and look at that article — I wish I had it here. But I think you’ll find 
that I said I preferred it to equities, generally. It — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I do think that there’s a lot to be said for developing a temperament that 
can own securities without fretting. I think that the fretful disposition is the — it’s an enemy of 
long-term performance. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it’s almost — I think it’s almost impossible if you’re — to do well in 
equities over a period of time if you go to bed every night thinking about the price of them. I 
mean, Charlie and I, we think about the value of them. 
But we would be happy, just as in that movie — if they closed the Stock Exchange tomorrow, 
you know, Dick Grasso wouldn’t be happy and Jimmy Maguire, our specialist, wouldn’t be 
happy. 
It wouldn’t bother me and Charlie, at all. We would keep selling bricks, selling Dilly Bars, selling 
candy, writing insurance. You know, a lot of people have private companies and they never get 
a quote on them. 
You know, we bought See’s Candy in 1972. We haven’t had a quote on it since. Does that make 
us wonder about how we’re doing with See’s Candy? No, we looked at the company results. 
So you — there’s nothing wrong with focusing on company results. Focusing on the price of a 
stock is dynamite, because it really means that you think that the stock market knows more 
than you do. 
Now if the stock market may know more than you do, but then you shouldn’t be in stocks. I 
mean, you should have — the stock market is there to serve you and not to instruct you. 
So you need to formulate your ideas on price and value, and if the price gets cheaper and you 
have funds, you know, logically, you should buy more, if — and we do that all the time. 
Where we make our mistakes, frankly, is where we focus on price and value and we start 
buying, and the price goes up a little and we quit, you know, like Charlie referred to, we might 
have done on See’s Candy. 
A mistake like that cost us $8 billion in the case of Walmart stock a few years ago, because it 
went up in price. And you know, we are not happy when things we’re buying go up in price. 
We want them to go down, and down, and down. And we’ll keep buying more and — hopefully 
we won’t run out of money. Of course, that’s a different story. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE: No. 
33. Triple-A rating won’t “cause us to do anything stupid” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. David Anglin (PH) from St. Louis, Missouri. Thanks for the weekend, it’s 
very nice. It’s always entertaining here. 
According to an article in The Economist, the triple-A rating is very important quality for 
reinsurance to have. Swiss Re, Munich Re have lost their triple-A ratings. Gerling is out of the 
ballpark. 
Will the reinsurance business at Berkshire become unintentionally exposed to higher risk 
because it is now a major reinsurer still holding a triple-A rating, even though it practices a very 
severe underwriting discipline? 
WARREN BUFFETT: No, the triple-A can’t increase our risk, because it should not affect what we 
do. 
It may affect what gets offered to us. I mean, logically we should get business offered to us first, 
and last. I mean, we are the reinsurer that’s going to pay for sure, five years from now, 10 years 
from now. 
So when — I mean, we have contracts, we have structured settlements with paraplegics that 
are counting on us to make a payment to them 50 years from now. 
And those people are in wheelchairs, they may be on — you know, they may be on oxygen, all 
kinds of things. And they are depending on a little piece of paper that has our name on it, and it 
says we’re going to pay them for the rest of their life. And it’s very, very important to them 
whose name is on it. 
But that shouldn’t cause us to do — it shouldn’t cause us to do anything at all stupid. It just 
means that people that care about security of future promises should come to us. 
But there’s no reason at all, because Munich or Swiss Re loses their triple-A, that we should 
underwrite in any way differently than we do now. It just should mean that we have more to 
choose from. 
And I can assure you that, as these companies lose their triple-A — and a number have in the 
last year or year and a half — we have been tightening our underwriting very materially at Gen 
Re. 
Now, it needed tightening — but we are now, in my view — we have the right — we have a 
great underwriting culture at Gen Re, and historically it had it most of the years. It drifted away 
from that, but I think it’s back in spades now. So I don’t think you have to worry about that. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I certainly hope we are better underwriters than Munich Re. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, let’s not name names. (Laughter) 
No, no, Munich is a fine company. (Laughter) 
The rule at Berkshire is we praise by name and we criticize by category. (Laughter) 
And I do think Munich is a fine company, but they lost their triple-A, frankly, because they 
probably had — they were too exposed on the equity side — on the asset side — in equities, 
relative to net worth, and I think they probably agree with that. 
But they have a very strong and important position in insurance. And we do a lot of business 
with Munich Re, and will continue to do so. But there are others we won’t do business with, 
incidentally. 
I mean, there are some very weak reinsurers in the world and if there were to be a major 
natural catastrophe, or if there were to be a major financial catastrophe, there are a number of 
reinsurers, in my view, that would not pay. And we conduct our affairs so we’ll always be able 
to pay. 
34. Planned all along to exercise Cologne Re buy option 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 5? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, gentlemen. My name is Olaf Heine (PH) from Germany. 
And not surprisingly, I have a question concerning the German reinsurance market, fitting nicely 
in the context of the questions before. 
When you acquired General Re, I believe you inherited, also, a substantial stake in Cologne Re. 
Now in your last letter to your shareholders, you hinted that a major reinsurance company 
might be in trouble, widely believed to be Gerling Re, just mentioned. 
You also mentioned, about an hour ago, that Germany was kind of a drag insurance-wise — 
(laughs) — if you are — if I understand you correctly. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I don’t — I mean, I don’t believe I — I didn’t mean to say that. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: OK, but it helps to formulate the question. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, well, for the purpose of your question we’ll assume I said it — (laughter) 
— yeah. But I didn’t say it. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So now Gen Re decided to exercise a call option on the remaining shares 
of Cologne Re, another German reinsurance company. And my question simply is, what 
motivated you to do so? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, that’s a good question. And it was mis — it was sort of somewhat 
misreported in the press, what happened on that. 
What really happened is that Gen Re — I don’t know whether it would be about six or seven 
years ago now — acquired a significant position in Cologne from the controlling shareholder, 
with a put and call arrangement for the remainder. 
I don’t even know the history, exactly, of why they went for this two-step transaction, but 
basically it was a two-step purchase. 
So that all along we have accounted for Cologne as if we were going to exercise the option. 
Because, in effect, if we didn’t exercise, they would exercise. And it was fait accompli that we 
would buy that stock right from the start. 
So we made no affirmative — we made an affirmative decision six or seven years ago to buy a 
very significant percentage of Cologne. We now have — will have about 89 percent when the 
option’s exercised. 
But there’s nothing new in the fact that we are now doing it. The put and call arrangement, as I 
remember, became effective, essentially, this year. 
