But the airlines — clearly, what happened was not their fault in any way, shape, or form. It 
wasn’t like 2008 and ’09 when people blamed the banks and hated to see them helped. So, it 
was — 
Now, airlines operate in bankruptcy. So, it isn’t like that — three of the four big ones, as we 
know, went through bankruptcy within the previous 10 or 15 — so the airlines that were kind of 
used to operating in bankruptcy, they would have kept operating. 
But it was perfectly proper for the airlines to be helped. The entire airline business, you know 
— you look at these figures of 2 trillion for Apple and so on — the entire big four airlines, they 
sold for about $100 billion, almost — I mean it’s a very, very small — combined, they wouldn’t 
come close to making the cut. I mean, they wouldn’t be in the top 50. 
So anyway, they went into the government. They needed the government help, or they needed 
— or they would go bankrupt, some of them. 
And really the Congress, but (Treasury Secretary) Steve Mnuchin, too, they decided they 
deserved the help, which I do not quarrel with at all. 
But imagine if Berkshire was the 10% holder, which they had been, of everyone in the airlines, 
they said, “Take it up in Berkshire.” (Laughs) 
It’s — it would be like one of our — they would have had — they might have very well had a 
very, very, very different result if they’d had a very, very, very rich shareholder that owned 8 or 
9%. And they didn’t have that. You know, when they went in. 
So, our — you might not have gotten the same result. 
In fact, I would think you probably wouldn’t. I mean, I can just see the headlines now. I mean, 
you know, because you’ve seen the headlines on some companies that took a hundred million 
or two, you know, and really didn’t need it. And some of them gave it back — most of them 
gave it back. 
But you were looking — you’re actually looking at probably a different result than if we’d kept 
our stock. 
But in any event, an industry that was really selling for less than a hundred billion dollars lost a 
significant amount of money. They lost prospective earning power. I mean right now, they’re — 
you know, international travel’s not come back. 
But I would say, overall, to — the economic recovery has gone far better than you could say 
with any assurance. 
So, we didn’t like having as much money as we had in banks at that time. So I cut back some of 
the bank investment. 
But basically, our net sales were about 1% or one and a half percent. 
And looking back, you know, it would have been better to be buying. But what — I do not 
consider it a great moment in Berkshire’s history. But also, we’ve got more net worth than any 
company in the United States, under accounting principles. And we’ve got six or 700 billion of 
generally good businesses. 
And I think, as I think, I think the airline business has done better because we’ve sold, and I wish 
them well. 
But I still wouldn’t want to buy the airline business (laughs). International — people really want 
to — they want to travel for personal reasons, and business travel is another thing. 
And we’ve got a big exposure to business travel, of course, through the fact that we own 19% of 
American Express and we own Precision Castparts, which services the air business. 
So, we’ve still got a big investment in air travel, a big commitment to it. 
But we wish the big four the best. And I think their managements have done a very good job 
during this period. 
11. Why Berkshire didn’t buy stocks when the pandemic pushed prices lower 
BECKY QUICK: More specifically, beyond the airlines, though, just the idea of — and this came 
from several questions, too, including one from Chris Blaine (PH). Just — 
“You spent years accumulating cash, insisting you had your elephant gun ready. The March 
2020 listed equity selloff came with promises from the U.S. government that they would do 
what it takes. Yet, you sat on your hands. Please help me understand what I missed.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: I didn’t get quite the last part. What was the final question? 
BECKY QUICK: Just, “Please help me understand what I missed.” Why — why didn’t you use 
more of the cash at hand? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh. Well, we have about — our cash on hand has been about 15% of our 
values — of our businesses — and that’s a healthy chunk. 
And I say it’ll never get below 20 billion, but we’re going to raise that number, because it’s just 
the size and importance of Berkshire is — 
But we could have deployed 50 or 75 billion, and right before the Fed acted. I mean, we hit a 
point where the calls were — two calls came in. But there was two or three days that nothing 
could happen. When (Federal reserve Chair) Jay Powell acted as he did, that was incredibly 
important — I mean, I should say the Fed acted as they did — but they moved with a speed and 
a decisiveness on March 23rd that changed the situation where the economy had stopped. 
The government bond market was even disrupted. Berkshire Hathaway probably could not 
have gone out with a debt offering the day before. 
It didn’t get a lot of publicity at the time, but there was a run on money market funds, a very 
substantial run. And — if you look at the numbers — daily numbers on that — it was a repeat of 
September 2008. 
And this time — I give great credit to what (then-Federal Reserve Chair Ben) Bernanke and 
(then-Treasury Secretary Henry) Paulson did — but this time, the Fed knew that saying 
whatever it takes, and saying it and demonstrating it — which they did on March 23rd — they 
took a market where Berkshire couldn’t sell bonds on the day before and turned it into one 
where Carnival Cruise Lines or something (laughs) could sell it a day or two later. 
And there was, you know, this record issuance of corporate debt. And companies losing money, 
companies who were closed, whatever. It was the most dramatic move that you can imagine. 
And at the time, as I remember the chairman saying, you know, how about a little help on the 
fiscal front? 
And then Congress acted very, very big. Again, in 2008 and ’09, they argued about, you know, 
we don’t want to give any money to those dirty banks and all that sort of thing. But this time, 
there really wasn’t anybody to blame. So, they saw what was necessary, and Congress 
responded. 
So, you had fiscal and monetary policy that responded in a way that was incredible. And it did 
the job. And it did, I think, it did a better job (laughs) than either the Fed or the Treasury or 
anybody expected. 
I mean this economy right now is — 85% of it is running in super-high gear. And people can’t — 
you know, and you’re seeing some inflation and all of that. It’s responded in an incredible way. 
And we learned something out of 2008 and ’09, and then we applied it. But I don’t think it was 
a sure thing that would happen. 
And the one thing about Berkshire is we never want — we don’t want to depend on anybody. 
We’re not a bank. We can’t go to the Federal Reserves if we need money. 
And we’ve got to be sure that, under any circumstances — any circumstances — we can’t solve 
nuclear war, and maybe we can’t, you know — but, you know — 
Blanche DuBois, if you remember, in (Tennessee Williams’ 1947 play) A Streetcar Named 
Desire, said, “I depend on the kindness of strangers.” You can’t depend on the kindness of your 
friends if things have really stopped. I mean I’ve seen that in several different places. 
And we were start — we were seeing it on March — in the middle of March. Everybody was 
drawing down the credit lines. The banks did not expect that. They just weren’t sure they were 
going to be able to draw down their credit lines ten days later. And so, they just drew them 
down, and they took the money out of money market funds. 
We got very prompt — I give great credit, on both the monetary and fiscal side, to what was 
done. 
But I didn’t think it was a sure thing it would happen. And I didn’t know how it would be 
implemented. And it’s worked — I think it’s worked better than just about anybody has 
expected. And I think — well, you’re seeing it now. 
You know, Charlie’s got some views on this, too. So, we shouldn’t leave him out of it. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, it’s crazy to think anybody’s going to be smart enough to husband 
money and then just come out on the bottom tick in some crazy crisis and spend it all. 
There always is some person that does that by accident. But that’s too tough a standard. 
Anybody expects that of Berkshire Hathaway is out of his mind. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, Charlie and I never were very good at dancing. But we really can’t do 
that dance. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, no, we can’t. And by the way, almost nobody else can, either. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Not with tens of billions. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Or hundreds of billions. 
But it’s worked out. 
Well, we forgot to show one of the financial sides, actually, if you go back to the balance sheet. 
But we did buy in, in the first — you’ll see the shares outstanding if we go back to — what is it, 
E3? 
BECKY QUICK: E2. They look — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Slide. 
BECKY QUICK: E2. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Pardon me? 
BECKY QUICK: I think it’s E2, isn’t it? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well — the balance sheet. Yeah, there it shows the shares outstanding at 
the bottom. And we have — we have — we spent about 25 billion in the first quarter, and more 
money since. 
And we’ve — it’s the best thing — we can’t buy companies as cheap as we can buy our own. 
And we can’t buy stocks as cheap as we can buy our own. So — and we’ve been able to do that 
with a fair amount of money. 
But looking back, I mean if you — you know, definitely, we could have done better things. 
(Laughs) 
We would have sold the — we would have sold airlines and cut back on banks regardless. 
Whether we should have bought something else at the same time is another question. 
12. Why Buffett doesn’t recommend buying Berkshire stock 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from a long-term shareholder who’s been here for more 
than 25 years. His name’s Ben Knoll. He’s from Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
And he says, “Mr. Munger and Mr. Buffett, after a 15-year period of market underperformance, 
you’re cautious about predicting Berkshire being able to outperform the market in the future. 
“Given this, what do you see as the arguments for long-time shareholders to continue holding 
their stock versus diversifying their risk across an index?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, you want to answer that? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, sure. Well, I personally prefer holding Berkshire to holding the market, 
so — 
BECKY QUICK: Because? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’m quite comfortable holding Berkshire. I like — I think our businesses are 
better than the average in the market. 
BECKY QUICK: Is it because you don’t think the market values it fairly? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, these are just accidents of history and things are fluctuating at all 
times. 
But on a composite basis, I’d bet on Berkshire over the market. And that’s assuming we’re all 
dead. 
WARREN BUFFETT: B, I recommend — I recommend the S&P 500 index fund — and I have for a 
long, long time — to people. 
And I’ve never recommended Berkshire to anybody. Because I don’t want people to buy it 
because they think (laughs) I’m tipping them into some — never. I mean, no matter what it was 
selling for. 
And, you know — I’ve made it public, you know — on my death, there’s a fund for my then-
widow, and 90% will go into an S&P 500 index fund and 10% in Treasury bills. 
On the other hand, I’m very happy having my future contributions to a group of charities, that’ll 
be spread over 12 years or so after my death, to stay in Berkshire. 
I think the odds are — Berkshire is — you know, I like it, but I’m not — 
I do not think the average person can pick stocks. We happen to have a large group of people 
that didn’t pick stocks, but they picked Charlie and me to manage money for them 50 or 60 
years ago. 
And so we have a very unusual group of shareholders, I think, who look at Berkshire as a 
lifetime savings vehicle, and one they don’t have to think about, and one that, you know, if they 
don’t look at it again for 10 or 20 years, that will have taken care of their money reasonably 
well. 
But that — I wouldn’t argue that the S&P 500, over time — I would — I prefer — I like 
Berkshire. 
But I think that the — a person who doesn’t know anything about stocks at all and doesn’t have 
any special feelings about Berkshire, I think they ought to buy the S&P 500 index. 
13. Why Buffett’s will calls for his wife’s inheritance to be invested in an index fund 
BECKY QUICK: As a follow-up to that, Gerald Silver writes in. He says, “The trustees of your 
estate — I believe you’ve directed the trustees of your estate to invest substantial assets into 
the index fund. Isn’t that a vote of no confidence to your managers?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, no, because we’re talking about way less than one percent of my 
estate. (Laughs) 
And one thing I’m going to do, incidentally — I mean all rich people get advised by their lawyers 
to set up trusts so that nobody can see your will and all that sort of thing. 
My will’s going to be public record. And you can — you’ll be able to check at some point 
whether I’ve been telling you the truth (laughs) about what is going to get done. 
But 99.7%, roughly, of my estate will either go to philanthropies or to the federal government. 
And before it does it, I think Berkshire is a very good thing to hold. But for a given individual, 
particularly my wife, I just think that having a tiny fraction — which is all it takes for her to do 
very well for the rest of her life — I just think that the best thing to do is buy 90% in an S&P 500 
index fund. 
Now, the index fund people, naturally, have started — over time — they market more and 
more products that go to other indices and everything. So, they’re really starting to say to the 
American public, they’re saying, well, you can pick what continent to invest in, or you can pick 
what industry (laughs) and we’ll sell you something for that. 
And when they just have gotten through telling them, you know, you really don’t know 
anything about stocks, just buy the whole index. (Laughs) 
So, I name the 500 index as one. 
But it’s a tiny portion, but it will be her livelihood, and she’ll have all the money she needs, and 
way beyond it, and that’s that. 
But I don’t mind having the 99.7% — a large portion of it — assuming the laws are the same as 
now — that go to philanthropy, to be kept in Berkshire until they finally are disposed of. 
14. “Chevron is not an evil company” 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Andrew Dixon in the UK. 
He says, “My question is in relation to the oil and gas business and your purchase of Chevron 
stock. 
