The 2015 failure of a gas injection well at Southern California Gas Company’s Aliso Canyon 
storage field in Los Angeles revealed major vulnerabilities in the maintenance and safety of 
natural gas storage facilities. The incident exposed both a lack of oversight and contingency 
planning in the face of a well blowout. 
Berkshire Hathaway has storage facilities that face similar risks as it is estimated to hold the 
11th highest volume in natural gas in the country. 
There are over 400 gas storage facilities around the country, many of which were drilled 
decades ago. Numerous independent researchers have concluded that if natural gas is to lead 
to a more sustainable energy future, then missing emissions must be addressed. 
Ongoing concerns have spurred public debate and led to regulatory action at the state and 
federal level. A strong program of target-setting measurement, mitigation, and disclosure 
would indicate a reduction in regulatory risk as well as efficient operations maximizing gas for 
sale and shareholder value. 
Given this, we believe our company has a tremendous opportunity to move forward by 
providing shareholders with this important information. 
ISS, the leading provider of proxy voting advice, agrees and has a recommended a vote in favor, 
noting such disclosures would allow shareholders to better understand the company’s 
management of its methane emissions and any related risks. Thank you for your consideration. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Are there other people who wish to speak on this motion? 
EILEEN DURRY: I don’t believe so. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. The motion is now ready to be acted upon. If there are any 
shareholders voting in person, they should now mark their ballot on the motion and deliver 
their ballot to one of the meeting officials in the aisles. Miss Amick, when you’re ready, you 
may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast 57,600 votes for the motion and 542,870 
votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, as well as all votes outstanding, the 
motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Greg, incidentally — is there a live microphone? You’re — yeah, there we — 
you might talk a little bit about the methane situation. 
GREGORY ABEL: Sure, Warren. So thank you for your comments. 
And when you think about methane emissions, it is a serious issue, relative to carbon. It was 
highlighted 84 times worse than a carbon emission. But I’d be very pleased to report on our 
situation at Berkshire Hathaway. 
So, three different issues were raised in the comment. One was overall emissions from oil and 
gas production. So, the first thing I would just highlight is that we do not own any oil and gas 
producing assets. So we don’t have any wells and, effectively, don’t have that risk. 
The second thing that was highlighted was the significant loss of gas at Aliso Canyon. It was a 
injection well that failed. Took many months to fix the well. 
And if you fundamentally look at the problem there — and we do own other storage facilities, 
but we do not use their technology or that type of well. All of our wells are cased to the top 
which creates a very different risk and, literally, can be mitigated within hours. 
And, then, the third issue which was raised was leakage rates. And it was highlighted, at least in 
a second response to the proposal, that the leading companies in the industry have a leakage 
rate of one percent, or they’ve put together programs to achieve a leakage rate of one percent. 
And I’m happy to report, when we look at our leakage rate from our pipelines, we’re at 0.53 of 
one percent. So, basically, half of the leading companies in the industry. So that, obviously, 
support the recommendation of the shareholders. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thanks, Greg. You’ve heard the vote. And the proposal fails. 
37. Shareholder motion to divest fossil fuel holdings 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is a motion put forth by a shareholder, the 
Nebraska Peace Foundation. The motion is set forth in the proxy statement. The motion 
requests that the company divest of its holdings in companies involved in the extracting, 
processing, or burning of fossil fuels. 
The directors have recommended the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now recognize Mark Vasina to present the motion. And, again, to allow all interested 
shareholders to present their views, I asked him to limit his remarks to five minutes. 
And the microzone at zone 1 is available for those wishing to speak for or against the motion. 
Zone 1 is the only microphone station in operation. 
And for the benefit of those present, subsequent speakers should — I ask that they limit 
themselves to two minutes and confine your remarks solely to the motion. With that, if you’ll 
proceed. 
MARK VASINA: Thank you. My name’s Mark Vasina. I represent the Nebraska Peace 
Foundation. We’re here to present our proposal asking Berkshire Hathaway to divest of its 
carbon-based assets over a period of 12 years, a period of time we believe is a very modest 
proposal indeed. 
Last year, we were here with a proposal that Berkshire Hathaway evaluate and report on the 
impact of climate change on their insurance companies. 
After our — after the meeting, we were approached by a number of shareholders who 
suggested we were pulling our punches. And they suggested the real question is divestiture. So 
we thought about it. We came back to ask for divestiture of the carbon-based assets. 
We recognize that for a public company that’s involved in investing in other companies, 
divestiture represents different kinds of challenges from those of university endowments, 
pension plans, public foundations, such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation — 
organizations which have divested or have implemented divestiture plans. 
However, we believe that the necessity for divestiture involves more than just a social, ethical, 
or even moral question, but also involves financial risk. 
As the Bank of England, in their recommendation to the insurance companies that they 
regulated, that they investigate and report on the climate change risk to these companies, they 
pointed out that financial risk of holding these carbon-based assets was real — unpredictable. 
Things like regulatory risk, political risk, technology changes, investment — investor sentiment 
changes — these things pose risks towards the financial value of assets in this type of 
investment. 
So we are proposing, as I said, divestiture of all carbon-based assets over 12 years. 
I’m going to be followed by three prominent American climate scientists, Frank LaMere of the 
Winnebago tribe of Nebraska, and Richard Miller, Creighton University theologian. Thank you 
for giving us the opportunity to make our case for this proposal. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. And we’ll proceed to the next speaker, please. 
MICHAEL MANN: Chairman Buffett, board members and shareholders, my name is Michael 
Mann. I’m a professor at Penn State University and a climate scientist. 
And as a scientist who spends much of my time communicating the reality and threat of climate 
change, it’s an honor to have this opportunity to speak to you today. 
Warren Buffett, known as the Wizard of Omaha, is an inspiration to many, a symbol of the 
value of work ethic, self-made success, and the great reward that comes with foresight. 
Now, foresight means recognizing both opportunity and risk. And when it comes to risk, there is 
no better example than climate change. I recently co-authored an article in the journal, 
“Scientific Reports,” for example, demonstrating that climate change played a key role in the 
onslaught of unprecedented, devastating droughts, floods, and heat waves in recent years. 
And the impacts we’re seeing now are just the veritable tip of the iceberg. Carbon emissions 
must be brought down dramatically within the next few years if we are to avert the worst 
impacts of climate change. 
Mr. Buffett coined the term “Noah’s Law” in his 2015 shareholder letter to describe the risk 
posed by climate change, stating, “If there is only a one percent chance the planet is heading 
toward a truly major disaster and delay means passing a point of no return, inaction now is 
foolhardy.” 
Well, I couldn’t agree more. And the science tells us that we are heading toward disaster in the 
absence of substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 
Board member Bill Gates demonstrated bold leadership a year ago when the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation announced it was divesting of fossil fuel holdings. 
Were Mr. Buffett to follow suit, it would send a profound message to the rest of the global 
business community, a message that we can both mitigate risk and seize opportunity in the 
form of massive growth in clean energy technology by tackling this problem now head-on 
before it’s too late. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. And I believe there’s another speaker or maybe two. If you’ll 
identify yourself, please. 
RICHARD SOMERVILLE: My name is Richard Somerville. I’m a climate scientist and a professor at 
the University of California San Diego. 
Chairman Buffett, board and shareholders, the world is warming. It is due to human activities. It 
is getting worse. The observational evidence is overwhelming. 
All the warmest years, globally, are recent years. We see the weather changing. We see more 
severe floods and droughts. Sea level rise is accelerating. Ice sheets and glaciers are shrinking 
worldwide. 
Climate change will become more and more serious unless emissions of heat-trapping gases 
and particles are quickly and drastically reduced. 
The biggest unknown about future climate is human behavior. Everything depends on what 
humanity does now. We have our hands on the thermostat that controls the climate of our 
children and grandchildren. 
In 2015, the nations of the world agreed in Paris on how much warming can safely be allowed. 
The Paris target was informed by science. And the science shows that to meet the target, 
emissions need to be reduced drastically and quickly. 
We cannot just muddle through. Dithering and procrastinating lead to catastrophe. Alleviating 
the disruption of climate change is cheap compared to coping with the damage that 
unmitigated climate change will cause. 
Want an example? Doing nothing about climate change means that sea level will become so 
high that coastal cities must eventually be abandoned. 
We caused this problem. We can solve it. And polls show that most Americans want strong 
actions to limit climate change. 
The forces driving clean energy are powerful. The market is turning against fossil fuels. The 
prices of solar and wind energy are dropping. They can already compete without subsidies. 
Vehicle electrification is happening fast. 
Clean energy provides jobs and economic growth. Progress and prosperity do not require 
emitting heat-trapping gasses. 
Berkshire Hathaway and Warren Buffett are rightly admired and respected worldwide. Helping 
the world confront climate change should be an important part of their legacy. We owe it to 
our children and grandchildren. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. I believe there’s one more speaker. (Applause) 
DAVID TITLEY: Thank you, sir. I am David Titley, retired rear admiral, former oceanographer of 
the Navy and now a professor of practice at Penn State. 
I’ve been a shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway since December of 2000. Thank you, sir, for your 
leadership of this enterprise. 
When I was stationed at the Pentagon, I had the privilege of working directly for the Pentagon’s 
foremost strategic planner, Mr. Andrew Marshall. 
He taught me how to think about risk, and especially risks that may seem distant or low 
probability, but one with very high impact, such as weapons of mass destruction. Climate 
change is a fat tail, emerging risk. 
It’s really a risk to people, to us. And when this risk is not managed, we have a security problem. 
One example would be Syria. Climate is one of the links in a long chain of events that led to the 
tragic outcome. Non-climate events, such as over a million refugees pouring into Syrian cities 
from the Iraq War, stress Syrian governance. 
Then, about a decade ago, an exceptionally intense drought and heat spell, linked with high 
confidence to a changing climate, devastated Syrian agriculture. Now, you have millions of 
desperate people with nothing and a breeding ground for extremists. 
Syria is an example of why, in the security community, we say that climate change accelerates 
the risks of instability. It can make bad places worse, a lot worse. 
Senior military officers know you must address risks and take precautions while you can, before 
it’s too late. The U.S. Defense Department understands the risks of climate change. And it’s 
been working quietly to adapt to the changing climate for years. 
Winston Churchill is alleged to have said, “Americans can always be counted upon to do the 
right thing after exhausting every other possibility.” But we will prevail. And you, sir, can help. 
Here’s my ask. What are government and business leaders doing to stabilize the climate? We 
should reduce rather than accept the risks of unchecked climate change because the ice 
doesn’t care which party controls the White House or the Congress. It just melts. Thank you. 
(Applause) 
FRANK LAMERE: I am Frank LaMere, of the Bear Clan of the Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska. 
It was the indigenous people of this continent who first consecrated the ground on which we 
live and grow, who offered up prayers and petitions asking that we be allowed to live and to 
provide a way for the generations to come. 
In exchange for the blessings given by the creator, our forbearers agreed to be good stewards 
of the land. The stewardship of our Mother Earth, who provides for us, has now changed. But 
the covenant remains the same. Let there be no mistake about that. 
If we continue to disrespect our earth mother, those things given us, bountiful harvest, 
protection from the elements and good, clean water will surely be taken from us. Our elders 
speak of this. It has been foretold. 
On Christmas Eve, my son came from Standing Rock to visit us for one hour. His mother and I 
worried about him. “How is it there? Why did you go?” I asked. He said, “It is dangerous, dad. 
But someone has to protect our water.” 
I nodded and said, “Ahoo! That is good.” He is a water protector. I stand on his shoulders. Mni 
wiconi. The protectors proclaim water is life. 
Bearing that in mind, I am told that this waterway flowing south from Standing Rock and 
passing just a short walk from here would be fouled by any kind of breach in the Dakota Access 
Pipeline. 
My sense and my years tells me that this will happen. Millions would be poisoned. 
I’m further told that this collective body holds a 15 percent interest in the — an oil company 
that is a 25 percent shareholder in the Dakota Access Pipeline. 
I would ask that you walk away from that investment, stand with Mother Earth today. 
I’m a Winnebago Indian. The Missouri River brought us here when we had no place to go. 
We stand with our Mother Earth now as she stood with us. Think about that. Mni wiconi. Water 
is life. Pinagigi. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. (Applause) 
RICHARD MILLER: Dear Chairman Buffett, board members and shareholders. 
I am Richard Miller. I am an associate professor of philosophical theology and sustainability 
studies at Creighton University. I write and teach on ethical issues raised by the climate crisis. 
As a rationale for voting no on the divestment resolution, the board maintained that Berkshire 
should not limit its universe of potential investments based upon complex social and moral 
issues, and that following state and federal laws was sufficient to meet your obligations. 
There is not only an overwhelming consensus in the scientific community about the reality and 
dangers of climate change, but there is also an overwhelming consensus among all major 
ethical theories that is one not morally justified to use increased profit as a rationale for doing 
harm to others. 
By continuing to invest in, and thus promote, the extracting, processing, and burning of fossil 
fuels, Berkshire is doing harm to people around the world and creating conditions that will 
threaten future generations. 
While one is not morally justified to use increased profits as a rationale for doing harm to 
others, one cannot also opt out of ethical considerations by appealing to moral complexity. 
When you’re doing harm to others, especially at that — this scale, there is no neutral space. 
Nor can you simply appeal to the fact that Berkshire is following state and federal laws when 
those laws are, themselves, unethical in that they allow the United States to violate the human 
rights of people around the world and set in motion catastrophic future for young people. 
The consensus among ethical theories will, in due time, become self-evident to the average 
person, analogous to the way slavery, as an evil, is self-evident today. 
Indeed, the recognition of the immorality of investing in fossil fuels is rapidly gaining ground as 
more and more institutions divest their fossil fuel holdings. 
Mr. Buffett, you’re standing on an ethical house of cards. It is only a matter of time before it 
comes tumbling down. 
Like the thousands gathered here and the millions on live stream, I admire your considerable 
achievements. But I am afraid that if you do not change course very soon, history will not judge 
you kindly. Thank you for your time. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Thank you. (Applause) 
The motion is now ready to be acted upon. If there are any shareholders voting in person, they 
should now mark their ballots on the motion and deliver their ballots to one of the meeting 
officials in the aisles. 
Miss Amick, when you’re ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast 7,784 votes for the motion and 594,044 votes 
against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, as well as all votes outstanding, the 
motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. The proposal fails. And Mr. Scott, do you have a 
motion? 
WALTER SCOTT: I move the meeting be adjourned. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? 
RON OLSON: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The motion to adjourn has now been made and seconded. We will vote by 
voice. Any discussion, if not, all in favor say, “Aye.” 
VOICES: Aye. 
 
