But it’s quite different than it was in 2012. And I don’t think the next time around the problem 
is going to be a real estate bubble. I think that it certainly was the cause, in a very large part, of 
what happened in 2008 and ’9, but I don’t — I don’t think it’ll be a replica of that. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add. 
30. Praise for portfolio managers Ted Weschler and Todd Combs 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Andrew. 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Warren, Todd and Ted now have been at Berkshire for several years. 
What have been their biggest hits, and failures, specifically? 
And what have they learned from Charlie and Warren, and what are the biggest differences 
between you and them? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’ll answer the last part, the easiest. 
I am trying to think of very big deals that we can do something in, in investments, or in 
business, preferably just in operating businesses. 
I mean, they still are — their primary job is working on — each has a $9 billion portfolio, and 
one of them has, I don’t know, perhaps seven or eight positions, and the other one has maybe 
thirteen or fourteen, but they have a very similar approach to investing. 
They’ve both been enormously helpful in doing several things, including important things, that 
— for which they don’t get paid a dime, and which they’re just as happy working on as — 
working on the things — as they are when they’re working on things that do pay off for them 
financially. 
They’ve got — they’re perfect cultural fits for Berkshire. They’re smart at what they do. And, 
you know, they’re a big addition to Berkshire. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Again, I’ve got nothing to add. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Did I cover the whole thing, Andrew, or was there one —a part I missed 
there? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Biggest hits and failures. I think they specifically wanted to know, in 
terms of investments, and trying to understand the way you think perhaps — I think the 
question was more — I think — the implication was, the way they think and the way you think, 
are there differences? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. They’re — I would say they’re — they have a bigger universe to work 
with, because they can look at ideas in which they can put 500 million, and I’m looking — I’m 
trying to think of ways to put, you know, sums into billions. 
But — and they probably — well, they certainly — have more extensive knowledge of certain 
industries and activities in business that have developed in the last ten or fifteen years. They’d 
be smarter on that than I am. 
But their approach to investing, I mean, they’re looking for businesses that they understand 
and that are going to — and through the stocks of those businesses — that they can buy at a 
sensible price and that they think will be earning significantly more money five or ten years 
from now. 
So it’s very similar to what I’m thinking about, except I’d probably add another zero to it. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And we don’t want to talk about specific hits and failures. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. 
OK. Gregg. 
Yeah, we will never get into disclosing — I mean, we file reports every 90 days that show what 
Berkshire does in marketable securities, but we don’t identify — I may identify whether it’s 
mine or theirs, but we don’t get into identifying what they do individually. 
31. We moved money to pay for Precision Castparts 
GREGG WARREN: Looking at Berkshire’s finance and financial products segment, there was a 
fairly significant increase in the amount of cash carried on the group’s books last year. 
After holding steady between 2 and 2-and-a-half billion dollars during 2012 to 2014, the 
amount of cash held at the segments spiked up to 5.4 billion at the end of the third quarter of 
last year, and $7.1 billion at the end of 2015. 
This incidentally coincided with your acquisition of GE’s railcar leasing unit, as well as the 
acquisition of several railcar repair maintenance facilities. 
Sales and profitability were fairly solid last year, but don’t really seem to account for the 
magnitude of the change in cash. And investments, debt, and other liabilities do not look to 
have changed significantly enough to count for the difference, perhaps accounting for about $1 
billion of the increase. 
Just wondering where the additional $3.5 billion in cash came from, and whether or not the 
elevated level of cash at the end of last year is excess to the business, or a new required level of 
cash for the operation? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I can — I can’t tell where it came from — you think I would, 3-
and-a-half billion — but I can tell you why we were funneling money into the parent company 
and the finance company. 
That money was basically dedicated to making the 22 billion portion of the Precision Castparts 
purchase that was accounted for by cash. We borrowed — we actually borrowed 12 billion — 
but 10 billion was what was — of the borrowing — was there. 
And we pushed money from various sources, depending on who owned what and that sort of 
thing, we pushed money into those two entities, and eventually into the parent company, to 
take care of the 22 billion that was coming due, turned out to be at the end of January, when 
the Precision Castparts closed. There’s really no significance to it other than that. 
32. IBM is “coping with a considerable change” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is Jeffrey Ustep 
(PH) from Cranford, New Jersey. 
I just have a simple question for you. How would you explain IBM’s moat? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’m not sure that’s a simple question. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, I don’t either. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it has certain strengths and certain weaknesses. And I don’t think we 
want to get into giving an investment analysis of any of the portfolio companies that we own. 
I would — I think I probably better leave it there. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. It’s obviously coping with a considerable change in the computing 
world, and it’s attempting something that’s big and interesting, and God knows whether it’s 
going to work modestly or very well. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think Warren knows either. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. We’ll find out whether the strengths are strengths. But — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But it’s a field that a lot of intelligent people are trying to get big in. 
33. Where Buffett and Munger get their sense of humor 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’re going to go to Section 8, and then we will adjourn for 15 minutes, 
prior to the formal meeting of the company. 
Station 8. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, everybody. Good afternoon. My name is Cristian Campos. I’m from 
New York City. I’m a senior accounting major at Baruch College, part of the City University of 
New York. 
And, Mr. Buffett, in your annual shareholder letters, and during interviews, and even today, 
your sense of humor always shines through. Where does your sense of humor come from? 
Please tell us. Thank you. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: That’s just the way I see the world. It’s a very interesting and, at times, very 
humorous place. And actually, I think Charlie has a better sense of humor than I have, so I’ll let 
him answer where he got his. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think if you see the world accurately, it’s bound to be humorous, because 
it’s ridiculous. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think that’s a good note to close on. 
34. Shareholder Q&A concludes 
WARREN BUFFETT: We will reconvene in 15 minutes for the formal part of the meeting. 
We have one proxy item to act on, and — so I hope that those of you who are interested in 
learning more about, actually, the insurance aspects of climate change, will stick around, and 
we’ll have a discussion on that. And I’ll see you at 3:45. Thank you. 
35. Berkshire’s formal annual meeting begins 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. If everybody will please settle down, we’ll proceed with the meeting. 
The meeting will now come to order. 
I’m Warren Buffett, chairman of the board of directors of the company. I welcome you to this 
2016 annual meeting of shareholders. 
This morning, I introduced the Berkshire Hathaway directors that are present. 
Also with us today are partners in the firm of Deloitte & Touche, our auditors. They’re available 
to respond to appropriate questions you might have concerning their firm’s audit of the 
accounts of Berkshire. 
Sharon Heck is secretary of Berkshire Hathaway, and she will make a written record of the 
proceedings. 
Becki Amick has been appointed inspector of elections at this meeting. She will certify the count 
of votes cast in the election for directors, and the motion to be voted upon at this meeting. 
The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott and Marc Hamburg. 
Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares outstanding — turned off 
the lights on me — entitled to vote and represented at the meeting? 
SHARON HECK: Yes, I do. 
As indicated in the proxy statement that accompanied the notice of this meeting that was sent 
to all shareholders of record on March 2nd, 2016, the record date for this meeting, there were 
807,242 shares of Class A Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each share 
entitled to one vote on motions considered at the meeting, and 1,254,393,030 shares of Class B 
Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each share entitled to one ten-
thousandth of one vote on motions considered at the meeting. 
Of that number, 575,608 Class A shares and 772,724,950 Class B shares are represented at this 
meeting by proxies returned through Thursday evening, April 28th. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. That number represents a quorum, and we will therefore 
directly proceed with the meeting. 
The first order of business will be a reading of the minutes of the last meeting of shareholders. I 
recognize Mr. Walter Scott who will place a motion before the meeting. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that the reading of the minutes of the last meeting of shareholders be 
dispensed with and the minutes be approved. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do I hear a second? 
MARC HAMBURG: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The motion has been moved and seconded. We will vote on the motion by 
voice vote. All those in favor say, “Aye.” 
Opposed? The motion is carried. 
36. Election of Berkshire directors 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is to elect directors. 
If a shareholder is present who did not send in a proxy or wishes to withdraw a proxy previously 
sent in, you may vote in person on the election of directors and other matters to be considered 
at this meeting. Please identify yourself to one of the meeting officials in the aisle so that you 
can receive a ballot. 
I recognize Mr. Walter Scott to place a motion before the meeting with respect to election of 
directors. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, 
Susan Decker, William Gates, David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Thomas Murphy, Ron 
Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as directors. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? 
MARC HAMBURG: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It has been moved and seconded that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, 
Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, Susan Decker, William Gates, David Gottesman, Charlotte 
Guyman, Thomas Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as 
directors. 
Are there any other nominations or any discussion? 
The nominations are ready to be acted upon. If there are any shareholders voting in person, 
they should now mark their ballot on the election of directors and deliver their ballot to one of 
the meeting officials in the aisles. 
Miss Amick, when you are ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. 
The ballot of the proxy holders, in response to proxies that were received through last Thursday 
evening, cast not less than 643,789 votes for each nominee. That number far exceeds a 
majority of the number of the total votes of all Class A and Class B shares outstanding. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. 
Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, Susan Decker, William Gates, 
David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Thomas Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl 
Witmer have been elected as directors. 
37. Shareholder proposal on climate change risks 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is a motion put forth by the Nebraska Peace 
Foundation. 
The motion is set forth in the proxy statement, and will the projectionist please put up number 
9? Here we are. 
The motion requested our insurance business issue a report describing their response to the 
risks posed by climate change, including specific initiatives and goals relating to each risk issue 
identified. 
The directors have recommended that the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now recognize — and I think it’ll be up in area one — I will now recognize Dr. James 
Hansen to present the motion. 
But I believe, maybe, the gentleman from the Nebraska Peace Foundation may be introducing 
it, and then he may introduce Dr. Hansen. 
To allow all interested shareholders to present their views, I ask the initial speaker to limit his 
remarks to five minutes, and then those — the microphone in zone one is available for those 
wishing to speak for or against the motion, subsequently — zone one is the only microphone 
station in operation. 
For the benefit of those present, I ask that each speaker for or against the motion limit 
themselves, with the exception of the initial speaker, to two minutes, and confine your remarks 
solely to the motion. And the motion should be left up on the — let’s see, is that up there or 
not? Yeah, OK, the motion shall be left up there. 
In a sense, incidentally, it asks us to present a report about the risk to the insurance division by 
climate change, and I did address this subject in the annual report. That would be a report, and 
it was a report that was concurred in by Ajit Jain, who is our number one expert on insurance 
risks. So that does represent the view of our insurance division, and myself, as the chief risk 
officer. 
But the subject now is open and we welcome the initial speaker’s comments. 
And if you’re just going to introduce Dr. Hansen — I can’t see who’s who up there — then I 
presume that he will have the five minutes and then subsequent speakers will have two 
minutes. So go to it, you’re on. 
MARK VASINA: Thank you. My name is Mark Vasina. I’m the treasurer of the Nebraska Peace 
Foundation, the owner of one A share of Berkshire Hathaway. 
We are the sponsor of the shareholder resolution which Mr. Buffett has described. In so doing, 
making the recommendation to develop a risk analysis and report on it, we’re following the 
lead of the Bank of England, which last September published a comprehensive report on 
climate change risks facing the insurance industry, and recommended that its regulated 
companies conduct reviews of the risks and make this available. 
The Bank of England regulates the UK insurance industry, which is the third-largest global 
insurance market. I’ll turn the rest of my time over to world-renowned climate scientist Dr. 
James Hansen. 
DR JAMES HANSEN: Thank you for this opportunity. 
I want to make a suggestion that I hope you will ponder. 
Some aspects of climate have become clear. Humans are changing the atmosphere, and we can 
measure how this is changing earth’s energy balance. More energy is coming in than going out. 
So the ocean is warming, ice sheets are melting, and sea level is beginning to rise. 
We are now close to a point of handing young people a situation that will be out of control, 
with ice sheet disintegration and multimeter sea level rise during the lifetime of today’s young 
people, which would mean loss of coastal cities and economic devastation. 
Sea level rise would be irreversible on any time scale of interest to humanity. The other 
irreversible effect of rapid climate change would be extinction of a substantial fraction of the 
species on Earth. 
The bottom line is that we cannot burn all fossil fuels, and the economic law of gravity is that as 
long as fossil fuels appear to be the cheapest energy, we will keep burning them. 
So my request, given the respect and the trust the public has in you, is that you reflect upon the 
possibility of a public statement in favor of a revenue-neutral, gradually-rising carbon fee. 
A carbon fee is needed to make the price of fossil fuels honest, to include the costs to humanity 
of their air pollution, water pollution, and climate change. 
A rising carbon fee is needed to spur effective investments by the private sector in clean 
energies and energy efficiency. 
Most important, it will steadily phase down fossil fuel use. I’m not asking you to endorse a 
carbon fee on the spot, but I hope that you will reflect upon it and perhaps provide a clear 
statement in your next report. 
It could be your greatest legacy. It could affect everything, even the course of our future 
climate. T 
Thanks. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Dr. Hansen. 
I might say that we — (Applause) 
— although we may differ on some specifics, and I don’t know — I am no expert on this subject 
whatsoever — I don’t think you and I have any difference in the fact that it’s important that 
climate change — you know, since it’s something where there is a point of no return — if we 
are on the course that you think is certain and I think is probable, that it’s a terribly important 
subject. 
But the motion that was put forth was relating to the insurance aspects of it, and we have 
discussed — believe me, we have thought and discussed insurance aspects, and I’ve, in effect, 
given a report in the — which was asked for by this — within the annual report. 
So it is really not — the issue before the shareholders is not how I feel about whether climate 
change is real, or whether a carbon tax is appropriate, it’s whether it poses a risk to our 
insurance business. 
And I recognize the Bank of England — read that report — but we respectfully disagree with 
them in terms of — not in terms of the importance of climate change — but in terms of the risk 
to our insurance business. 
We don’t — we are not forced — we don’t write policies for a long period of time. We’re not 
forced to write a policy on anything, so we are — our judgment is made as propositions are 
presented to us, usually as to whether, for one year, we are willing to accept a given risk for a 
given price. 
And that — obviously, climate is enormously important in our activities, hurricanes being the 
most important, probably, although we also get involved in earthquakes — but that is what the 
proposal is about, and that — and we’ve given a response to that, and it does not mean that we 
differ on the importance of climate change to the human race. 
So with that, I would be delighted to hear from the various seconders. 
JIM JONES: Hello. My name is Jim Jones. I’m the executive director of the Katie School of 
Insurance at Illinois State University. 
I would like to express my concerns, based on three hidden risks associated with climate 
change. 
The first relates to stranded assets of insurers investing in fossil fuels. The second is a more 
insidious risk related to climate change. This risk is associated with the long-term liabilities 
associated with property, life, and health lines of business. 
And I realize that a number of intelligent people and experts don’t see a long-term liability, but 
they’re missing one important part, is that primary insurers are not able to withdraw or reprice 
books — entire books of business. 
Following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma, new hurricane models were developed in 
Florida, and they attempted to get the recommended rate approvals for that. They were not 
allowed to, and so many insurers began to withdraw from that market. 
Ten years later, that — about 40 percent of the underperforming business is still on the books 
of those insurers, and this could play out in several other states that are exposed to climate 
risk. 
For a reinsurer, the value of reinsurance with their customers is a long-term business. 
The reason why this is so important is because, according to my count, 156 of your reinsurance 
customers have filed climate change disclosures, and these customers are looking for long-term 
interest being protected by their reinsurer. 
And if not, there’s a potential for a relationship default risk that could occur if they perceived 
your reinsurance as just being one-year contracts that can be repriced or withdrawn. 
And you enter into that world of the expanding market competition of alternative reinsurance, 
which just last year was $72 billion, and earlier this quarter, we set a record of $2.2 billion in 
cap bonds. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. The — I would point out that we have not been asked, ever, to 
my knowledge, to write long-term contracts. Our primary insurers know that we look at it one 
year at a time, and we will not write business that we think has a major negative probability. 
They don’t expect us to. 
It’s way less a relational business than in the past. It’s much more a transactional business. 
But it — we will not write — if we lose a customer because they want us to do something 
stupid, we lose the customer, and there is not a — in our business — I’m not speaking for other 
reinsurers, but in our business, and I believe with most other reinsurers, they are not going to 
do something that they think is terribly disadvantageous to them just to maintain a 
relationship. That’s not really a relationship. It’d be a subsidy. 
So I do — that does not strike me, frankly, as a factor at all of any negative consequence at 
Berkshire. 
We — in terms of what happened after Katrina — rates went up, and actually it — the 
hurricane experience in Florida has been better than any period since before 1850 that we have 
any records on. 
That’s been a surprise to us, incidentally. But we have not written business — catastrophe 
business — in Florida during that period, because we didn’t think the rates were adequate. 
They were adequate, we just were wrong about it. 
So the — and incidentally, that does not — the fact that we walked away from cat business in 
Florida that we thought was mispriced — does not hurt us in the business. 
It’s really a — it’s much more of a transactional business in the — there may have been a time 
when relationships were very big in reinsurance, but with so many entrants in it, it is very much 
a transactional business. And no one expects you to do something that’s very stupid. 
You know, if they do, it’s the wrong kind of a relationship. But glad to hear the next speaker. 
JANE KLEEB: Hello, Mr. Buffett. My name is Jane Kleeb. I run a group called Bold Nebraska, 
which was part of an unlikely alliance who beat Keystone XL, to protect the aquifer in our state 
as well as property rights. 
And I met you several years at Senator Nelson’s home, and I had pulled you aside and asked 
how could we get health care reform passed? 
And you told me two things: You said, the polling numbers matter, and that we have to keep on 
applying public pressure. 
And we feel the same way about climate change and climate action. The most recent Yale study 
said that even 47 percent of conservatives believe in climate change and want to start seeing 
corporate and government action. 
And your response to this resolution struck me, because one of the sentences said that if you 
live in a low-lying area, you should probably move. 
Well, we work with Native brothers and sisters who live in coastal communities, and one of 
those tribes is now the first United States climate refugees. 
They didn’t have the option to move. They were forced to move. 
And so we’re turning to you and we’re turning to ourselves to continue to apply public pressure 
and hope that both you and Charlie stand with us. 
And maybe it’s not this year, and maybe it’s not the year after, but we really look forward to 
you doing full climate risk analysis, as well as divesting from all the fossil fuels that you own. 
And lastly, it takes both small and mighty, as well as big and powerful, to solve this problem of 
climate change. So you blocking small solar in Nevada is the wrong road to go down. Thank you. 
(Scattered applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think you’ll have a reasonable time to move, but I would say, if you’re 
making a 50-year investment in low-lying properties, it’s probably a mistake. 
I actually said you may — as a homeowner in a low-lying area — you may wish to consider 
moving. 
And I would say that if you expect to be there for ten years or so, I don’t think I would consider 
moving. But if I thought I was making a 100-year investment, I don’t think I would make it. 
I think it gets to the question — we have a shareholder proposal that says, what are the risks to 
the insurance division from climate change? 
We’re not denying climate change is an incredibly important subject. We’re not denying its 
existence. 
But it will not hurt our insurance business, and it’s immaterial compared to other things that 
could affect our insurance business. And, you know, that is the issue before the meeting. But I’ll 
be glad to hear from the next speaker. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon, Mr. Buffett. My name is Kay Harn (PH). I’ve been a 
shareholder for more than a decade, basically my investing life. 
Today someone said that you think ahead of the crowd. With regards to this resolution, you’re 
saying that the Berkshire insurance business will just raise rates the next time the policy is 
renewed, and that makes sense. But you agree that climate change poses a major problem for 
our planet. 
I would say that climate change poses a major problem for the stability of our global financial 
markets, if the political action continues at its current pace with regards to this issue. 
I personally agree with Dr. Hansen, that a carbon fee is the solution to address this issue. I’m 
wondering if you can tell us what you think the solution to address this issue is, and whether 
you think the Berkshire businesses, more broadly than just insurance, will be impacted by this 
issue in the next decade or two. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I would doubt if it’s affected in the next decade or two. 
But I won’t argue with you at all that it’s likely, not certain, that — unless various techniques 
are designed for reducing — well, for sequestration, different things of that sort — that plenty 
of people will be working on — or unless the emissions greenhouse — gas emissions — are 
reduced significantly — that it’s a terribly important problem for civilization. 
And there have been other — I mean, there’s certainly going to be some very smart people 
working on ways to change the balance in some way, either through less being released in the 
atmosphere or by various techniques that might diminish the impact, but no one here will deny 
that it’s important. 
I don’t think it will impact — I don’t think it will impact, in a serious way, the climate — or 
insurance, for that matter — in the next decade or two. 
But, as I pointed out in the report, if you’re dealing with something where there’s a point of — 
where you pass a point of no return, the time to do something isn’t when we get ten minutes 
away from the point of no return. 
So there are policies, which we’ve subscribed to very strongly, in terms of renewables and that 
sort of thing, but I think there’s also possibilities that within the scientific community, there will 
be solutions that are beyond my limited knowledge of physics to conjure up myself, but there 
are a whole lot of people out there that are a lot smarter. 
And I think that a basic problem on the reduction — if those things don’t come to pass — is the 
fact that it’s a planetary problem, and it requires cooperation by very important countries, and I 
think President Obama has made a good start in working with leaders of other countries. But it 
can’t be solved by the United States alone, as you know better than I. 
I’d be glad to hear from the next speaker. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. My name is Nancy Meyer (PH), and I’ve been a shareholder for 15 
years with my husband. 
We have great faith in Berkshire Hathaway. That’s why we invested. So I’m just here to say that, 
as a shareholder, I’d like to ask my fellow shareholders to consider the economic costs of 
climate change and urge Berkshire Hathaway to adopt this resolution to show leadership in the 
insurance industry. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. I appreciate the fact you’ve been a shareholder, but I do think 
for reasons that — I don’t really think that the resolution — I think the resolution is, in a sense, 
inapplicable to our insurance business. 
I mean, insurance — global climate is not a risk to our insurance business. It may be a risk to the 
planet over time, but that’s a different thing. 
I mean, you can — we can adopt all kinds of resolutions about saying that, obviously, nuclear 
proliferation is a threat to the planet, and you can say, well then, it’s a threat to Berkshire. 
But in terms of being Berkshire-specific, you know, you can read the resolution and, like I say, 
our answer, with Ajit Jain, probably the smartest person I know in insurance, and I have 99 
percent of my net worth in Berkshire that’s all destined to go to philanthropic institutions, and 
I’m not eager to see that disappear, and I do regard myself as the chief risk officer of Berkshire, 
and I worry about things that can hurt Berkshire, and I do not see it in our insurance division, in 
relation to climate change. But, thank you. 
RICHARD MILLER: Good afternoon, Mr. Buffett. I am Richard Miller, in the Creighton Theology 
Department, here in Omaha. And I study and teach climate change and its social effects. 
I just wanted to make you aware that Berkshire is operating within a larger economy, and that 
the most important climate analysis — economic analysis — from Nicholas Stern, indicates that 
on our current path, by the end of this century, 30 percent loss in global GDP is possible. 
The other issue is, when we talk about doing something about climate change, doing something 
means to avoid major sea level rise, we need to reduce emissions globally, starting today, 7 
percent per year. 
The only time we’ve ever reduced emissions, over a ten-year period, in a growing economy, 
was in the 1990s in England, and we reduced them 1 percent per year. 
So we’re talking about a completely different thing than President Obama’s gradual move. 
And we need to do something — no, we need to do massive transformation — immediately. 
And with your large global holdings, you are a world significant figure on this, not just about 
this particular shareholder resolution. Thank you for your time. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. 
Is that the — complete the speakers? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Say that again? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Are you the final speaker? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I think those are all the speakers. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Well, thank you. Charlie, do you have anything you want to say? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, yes. 
We’re in Omaha, which is considerably above sea level. We have no big economic interest in 
this subject in our insurance companies. We don’t write much of that catastrophic insurance we 
used to write many years ago. 
So we’re asked, as a corporation, to take a public stance on very complicated issues. We’ve got 
crime in the cities. We’ve got 100 — we’ve got 1,000 — complicated issues that are very 
material to our civilization. 
And if we spend our time in the meeting taking public stands on all of them, I think it would be 
quite counterproductive. 
And I don’t like the fact that the people that constantly present this issue never discuss any 
solution, except reducing consumption of fossil fuels. 
So there are geo-engineering possibilities that nobody’s willing to talk about, and I think that’s 
asinine, so put me down as not welcoming. (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: We don’t want to have a political rally. 
The motion is now ready to be acted upon. If there are any shareholders voting in person, they 
should now mark their ballots on the motion and deliver their ballot to one of the meeting 
officials in the aisles. 
Ms. Amick, when you are ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. 
The ballot of the proxy holders, in response to proxies that were received through last Thursday 
evening, cast 69,114 votes for the motion and 531,724 votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, as well as all votes outstanding, the 
motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Ms. Amick. The proposal fails. 
38. Adjournment 
WARREN BUFFETT: Does anyone have any questions for our audit firm before we adjourn? If 
not, I recognize Mr. Scott to place a motion before the meeting. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move this meeting be adjourned. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Mr. Olson? 
RON OLSON: And I second it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Motion to adjourn has been made and seconded. We will vote by voice. Is 
there any discussion? If not, all in favor say, “Aye.” 
All opposed say, “No.” 
 
