Yeah. There’s Matt. Yeah. 
MATT ROSE: Yeah. So, the statement is actually right. 
Back in 1999, we had a failed merger with Canadian National. New rules were put in place by 
our regulator, a little group called the STB, and what they said was that the public litmus test 
for the next merger would have to be different. 
And, at that point in time we didn’t really think that a large merger was possible. And so, when 
Canadian Pacific announced their merger of the Norfolk Southern, when we think about our 
four constituencies, and those four are our customers, the labor groups, the communities in 
which we serve, and shareholders, which, our shareholder, of course, is BRK, we didn’t see any 
interest in the final round of these mergers occurring outside of the shareholder community. 
And so our position was simply to say, if the rest of the shipping community believes that we 
ought to see this final round, that’s fine, we’ll participate, but we don’t see it occurring right 
now. 
We do believe that when that final round occurs, there will be great efficiencies made for 
shippers and communities, but right now we don’t see the dynamics in place. 
So, what are those dynamics? It will be as the country continues to grow in population from 
where we are today, 315 million people, to, say, 320, 330, 350, transportation becomes more 
scarce and the railroads will need to do more. And that’s really when we think the next round 
will occur. 
24. Berkshire indifferent to Wells Fargo’s investment banking 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 6. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, my name is Michael Mozia. I’m from Brooklyn, New York and I’ll be 
starting at Wharton Business School in the fall. 
In an interview with Bloomberg Markets recently, Jamie Dimon defended the role banks play in 
financial markets, saying, “Banks aren’t markets. The market is amoral… You’re a trade to the 
market… A bank is a relationship.” 
But banks, namely investment banks, have struggled as regulators have favored market-based 
solutions, and many of those relationships investment banks have worked so hard for have 
proven to be less lucrative, especially compared to the growing fixed costs of supporting them. 
As it relates to our marketable securities portfolio, how do you feel about the investment 
banking component, particularly as Wells moves into that space? Would you feel differently if 
the cost basis was higher? 
And Warren, Charlie, thank you so much for doing this every year. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. Charlie, I didn’t totally get that, but does he feel the investment 
banking firms are being disadvantaged? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, he’s basically, how do we feel about — Jamie says — 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: How do you feel about —? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You can’t make as much money as you used to out of relationships, and it’s 
getting tougher and so forth? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, the public policy since 2008-9 has been to, very much, toughen 
up capital requirements in a variety of ways for banks, but it is specifically been designed to 
make large banks- very large banks — less profitable relative to smaller banks. 
And you do that by increasing capital requirements. You can change the math of banking, and 
the attractiveness of banking, totally, by capital requirements. Obviously, if you said every bank 
had to be 100 percent equity, it would be a terrible business. You couldn’t possibly earn any 
money that was significant on capital. 
And if you let people operate with 1 percent capital ratios, they can make a lot of money and 
they will cause the system all kinds of trouble. 
So, since 2009, the rules have been tilted against the larger banks by — primarily — through 
capital requirements. And that just means returns on equity go down, but returns on equity 
were awfully high prior to that. So it doesn’t — it hasn’t turned it into a bad business, it’s 
turned it into a less attractive business than earlier. 
And that — some of the investment banks operate as bank holdings companies, still, and 
they’ve been affected by those capital requirements, too. 
I’m not sure I’m getting 100 percent to your question, so I invite you to give me a follow-up, if 
you like, on that. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: In the marketable securities portfolio, do you feel good about the going-
forward prospects of the investment — of the investment banking companies — especially as 
Wells Fargo moves into that business? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, Wells Fargo has an investment banking aspect to it that primarily 
came in through Wachovia. And it’s not insignificant. 
But our ownership of Wells Fargo, which is very large — it’s our largest single marketable 
security — I’m not counting Kraft Heinz, which is about the same size, because in that situation 
we’re in a control position — it’s the largest non-control situation that we have, at Wells Fargo. 
And that’s by intent. I like it extremely well compared to other securities. Not because it has the 
most upside, but I feel that, weighted for upside and downside, that it’s — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s not the investment banking that charms you in Wells Fargo. It’s the 
general banking that — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. No. We’re not — it isn’t that big a deal, and that’s not what attracts 
us. 
We think Wells Fargo is a very well run bank. But, we didn’t make any decision to buy a single 
share based on the fact they were going to be more in the investment banking business 
because of the Wachovia acquisition. 
They’ve got a lot of sources of income. They’ve got a huge base of very cheap money, but 
unfortunately, they’ve got it out at very cheap rates on the other side now. But, spreads will 
probably work in their advantage eventually. And we think it’s a very well run bank. 
Investment banking business — Charlie and I are probably a little affected by the experience we 
had in running one for a short period of time — it’s not been something that we invested in 
significantly. 
We, obviously, made a major investment in Goldman Sachs, and we continue to hold shares 
that came out of the warrants that we received when we made the investment in 2008. 
But I think I can’t recall us making an investment banking purchase — a marketable security 
involving an investment bank — for a long time. Can you, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, I think, generally, we fear the genre more than we love it. 
25. “Very, very unlikely” activists could break up Berkshire 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: In the conclusion of the book “Dear Chairman,” which you recommend in this 
year’s annual letter — a new book you recommend- the author argues that, quote, “The life’s 
work of great investors is inevitably reabsorbed into the industrial complex with little 
acknowledgement of their accomplishments.” 
He then argues that Berkshire Hathaway will eventually be targeted by activist investors if it 
trades at too sharp a discount to intrinsic value. 
Do you agree with this assessment and have you considered installing corporate defenses that 
might prevent future generations of activists from trying to break up Berkshire Hathaway? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I used to worry more about that than I do now. 
Partly, size is one factor. I think the more important factor would be that Berkshire will always 
be in a position to repurchase very significant amounts of stock, and as long as it’s willing to buy 
that stock at some price — and it should be — close to intrinsic value, there should not be a 
large margin, in terms of anybody that might come along and think there’d be a lot money to 
be made by breaking up. 
There would be money lost by breaking it up, in terms of we’d lose — there’d be certain 
advantages lost. 
MidAmerican Energy could not have done what it has done in renewables without Berkshire 
being the parent. I mean, if it had been split off, it would have been worth — the parts would 
have been worth — less than the whole. And there are other instance — I could give you 
significant instances of that in other cases. 
So, I don’t think there will be a spread that will be enticing to anyone. And beyond that, I think 
the numbers involved would be staggering, and I think we have a shareholder base that 
recognizes the advantages of both the Berkshire businesses and its culture and — so I think it’s 
very, very unlikely. 
But there have been periods in business history where stocks sold at — where practically all 
stocks — sold at dramatic discounts from what you might call intrinsic value. And it’s interesting 
that very little activity occurred there. 
In the 1974 period, 1973 and ’74, you know, there were company — really good companies — 
one of which was Cap Cities, for example, that Tom Murphy ran, that was selling at a huge 
discount to what it was worth. But people did not come along. And so, to some extent, when 
the discounts are huge, money is hard to get. 
It’s not a huge worry with me. Actually, in my own case, because of the way my stock will get 
distributed to philanthropies after I die, it’s very likely that my estate, for some years, will be, 
by far, the largest shareholder of Berkshire, in terms of votes, even with this distribution policy 
that occurs. 
So I — it’s not something I worry about now. I used to worry about it some, but it’s not a factor 
now. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well I — I think we have almost no worries at all on this subject, and that 
most other people have a lot of thoroughly justifiable worry, and I think that helps us. So, I look 
forward on this subject with optimism. 
WARREN BUFFETT: You want to explain how it helps us, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, if you’re being attacked by people you regard as evil and destructive 
and so on, and you want a strong ally, how many people would you pick in preference to 
Berkshire? 
WARREN BUFFETT: My name is Warren Buffett and I approve of that message. (Laughter) 
26. No interest in “pure” leasing businesses 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan? 
JONATHAN BRANDT: Leasing has quietly become an important contributor to Berkshire’s 
earnings with its several leasing units logging about $1 billion in combined annual pre-tax 
income. 
Could you talk about Berkshire’s competitive advantages in its varying leasing businesses 
including containers, cranes, furniture, tank cars, and rail cars? 
Are there other leasing businesses you’d be interested in entering, for instance, airplanes or 
commercial auto fleets? Plane leasing companies, in particular, seem to sell for reasonable 
prices and are often available. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, we’ve got a very good truck leasing business in XTRA, and we’ve 
got a good, primarily tank car leasing, business at Union Tank Car and Procor. And we expanded 
by a billion dollars when we bought the GE fleet recently. 
Leasing, generally, isn’t something that will — we have to bring something to the party. 
At XTRA , that’s much more than just handing people a trailer and taking a check every month. 
There’s important service advantages brought to that. 
But pure leasing — leasing of new cars, which is a huge business — the math is not that 
attractive for us. 
The banks have an advantage over us because their cost of funds is so low now. It’s not quite as 
low as it looks, but I think Wells Fargo, I think the last figure was, you know, down around 10 
basis points. 
And when somebody has, you know, maybe a trillion dollars or so, and they’re paying 10 basis 
points for it, I don’t feel very competitive at Berkshire in that situation. 
So, pure money-type leasing is not an attractive business for us when we’ve got other people 
with a lower cost of funds. I mean, they’ve got the edge. 
And we have got — railcar leasing involves a lot more than just a financial transaction. I mean, 
we repair — we’ve got huge activity in the repair field, and those cars require servicing, and the 
same way in our trailer business. 
But you will not see us get in — aircraft leasing doesn’t interest me in the least. We’ve looked at 
that a lot of times, at various aircraft leasing companies offered to us. And that’s a scary 
business. And some people have done well in it by, in recent years, by using short-term money 
to finance longer-term assets which have big residual risks, and that just isn’t for us. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think you’ve said it pretty well. We’re well located now but we — I don’t 
agree that we have huge opportunities. 
27. “We’re not targeting competitors for destruction” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning Warren and Charlie. I am Vandemere Se from the 
Philippines. Warren, my wife and I sent original paintings to your office two days ago, we hope 
you like them. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Today — sorry — today Berkshire’s size ensures that it faces competition 
from numerous businesses. If you had a silver bullet, which competitor would you take out and 
why? I’m sorry — and you can’t say Donald Trump. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Which competitor in which businesses? I mean, you’re asking about which 
— 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Which — which competitor would you kill if you could? I don’t think — I 
don’t think we have to answer this one. 
WARREN BUFFETT: (Laughs) Charlie’s a lawyer. (Laughter) 
But I’ve thought about the question. (Laughter) 
We have lots of tough competitors. And in many areas, we’re a pretty tough competitor 
ourselves. 
And — and the real — what we want our managers to be doing, you know, is thinking every day 
about how to achieve a stronger competitive position. We call it “widening the moat.” 
But, we want to turn out better products, we want to keep our costs down to a minimum, you 
know, we want to be thinking about what our customer’s likely to be wanting from us, you 
know, a month, a year, 10 years from now. 
And, generally, if you take care of your customer, the customer takes care of you. But there are 
cases where there is some force coming along that really is — you may not have the answer for 
it. And then, you know, you get out of that business. 
We had that department store in Baltimore in 1966, and if we’d kept it, we would have gone 
out of business. 
So, recognizing reality is also important. I mean, you do not want to try and fix something that’s 
unfixable. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We’re not targeting competitors for destruction. We’re just trying to do the 
best we can everywhere. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Spoken like an anti-trust lawyer. (Laughter) 
OK. We really hope to be the ones that the other guys want to use the silver bullet on. 
28. Sequoia Fund was “overly entranced” by Valeant 
WARREN BUFFETT: Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Rom and Raji Terracod from Sugarland, Texas. 
He writes, “My wife and I have the vast majority of our net worth invested in Berkshire and in 
shares of the Sequoia Fund. Mr. Buffett, you have endorsed the Sequoia Fund on more than a 
few occasions. 
“Recently, the Sequoia Fund has been in the news because of its large position in Valeant 
Pharmaceuticals. Mr. Munger has termed Valeant’s business model ‘highly immoral.’ 
“Mr. Buffett, do you agree with Mr. Munger’s assessment? Have your views about Sequoia 
Fund changed? Also, as you know, Sequoia is an admirer and large holder of Berkshire stock. ” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, in a sense, I’m the father of Sequoia Fund, in that when I was closing 
up my partnership at the end of 1969, I was giving back a lot of money to partners, and these 
people had trusted me, and they wanted to know what they should do with their money. 
And we helped out those who wanted to put it in municipal bonds for a few months, Bill Scott 
and I stayed around and helped those people come up with those. But most of them were 
equity oriented-type investors. 
And we said there were two people that we admired enormously in the investment business, 
not simply because they were terrific investors, but they were terrific people. And they would 
be the kind of people that you’d make trustee of your will. 
So those two, one of whom is in the room — Sandy Gottesman, our director — and one was 
Sandy and one was Bill Ruane. They were friends themselves. 
So, Sandy took on a number of our clients — a number of our partners — and they became 
clients, and very happy clients, of his, and I’ll bet some of them are still clients, or their children 
or their grandchildren are, to this day. 
Others went with Bill — a lot of them went with both of them, actually — in fact, I would be 
surprised if the majority who had a lot of money gave some to Sandy and gave some to Bill. 
But Bill — we had a lot of people whose total funds were really not of a size that made them 
economic individual clients. And so, Bill, who would not have otherwise set up a fund, Bill said, 
“I’ll set up a fund.” 
And they actually had an office in Omaha. John Harding, who used to work for me, became the 
employer here. 
And a number of our ex-partners — my ex-partners — joined Sequoia Fund as a way to find an 
outstanding investment manager, like I say, both for ability and for integrity, and could deploy 
small sums with him. 
And Bill ran Sequoia until, I think, roughly 2005, when he died, and did a fantastic job. 
And even now, if you take the record from inception to now, with the troubles they’ve had 
recently, I don’t know of a mutual fund in the United States that has a better record. There 
probably is one, maybe, or two, But it’s — it’s far better than the S&P, and you won’t find many 
records that go for 30 or 40 years that are better than the S&P. 
So Bill did a great job for people. And Bill died in 2005, and the record continued to be good 
until a year or so ago. 
And at that time, they — the management company — the manager, I should say — took an 
unusually large position in Valeant and, despite the objection of some people on the board, not 
only maintained that position but actually increased it, after a fair amount of doubt had been 
expressed by the board about the advisability of doing that. 
The record, like I say, to date, still, from when it started, is significantly better than average. 
My understanding is that the manager who made the decision on Valeant is no longer running 
the operation, and that other people have (inaudible) for doing so, and I have every reason to 
believe that they’re — I know that they’re very smart, decent people, who are good, probably 
way better than average analysts, in terms of Wall Street. 
So, I think it was a very unfortunate period when the manager got overly entranced with a 
business model, which, if you — I watched the Senate hearings a couple of days ago when 
Senator Collins and Senator McCaskill interrogated three people from Valeant, and it was not a 
pretty picture. 
In my view, the business model of Valeant was enormously flawed. It had been touted to us. 
We had several people who urged us, strongly, to buy Valeant, and wanted us to meet Pearson, 
and all that sort of thing. 
But it illustrated a principle that Pete Kiewit, I think, said many, many years ago. He said if 
you’re looking for a manager, find somebody that’s intelligent, energetic, and has integrity. And 
he said that if they don’t have the last, be sure they don’t have the first two. If you’ve got 
somebody that lacks integrity, you want them to be dumb and lazy. 
You know — and if you get an intelligent, energetic guy, or woman, who is pursuing a course of 
action which, if put on the front page, you know, would make you very unhappy, you can get in 
a lot of trouble. 
It may take a while. But Charlie and I have seen, and we’re not remotely perfect at this, I don’t 
mean that, but we’ve seen patterns. You get — pattern recognition gets very important in 
evaluating humans and businesses. And, the pattern recognition isn’t 100 percent, and none of 
the patterns exactly repeat themselves, but there’re certain things in business and securities 
markets that we’ve seen over and over, and that frequently come to a bad end, but frequently 
look extremely good in the short run. 
One, which I talked about last year — I’m not referring to Valeant in this regard — is the chain 
letter scheme, the disguised chain letter. You’re going to see chain letters the rest of your life. 
Nobody calls them chain letters because that has a connotation that will scare you off. But 
they’re disguised chain letters. And many of the schemes in Wall Street that are designed to 
fool people have that particular aspect to it. 
And there were patterns at Valeant that I think — certainly if you go and watch those Senate 
hearings, I think, you’ll decide that there were patterns there that really should have been 
picked up on, and it’s been very painful to the people of Sequoia. 
And I personally think that the people running Sequoia now are able people, and I’ll get into in a 
second the difficulty in managing money, but first, I’ll give Charlie a chance to comment on this. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I totally agree with you that Sequoia, as reconstituted, is a reputable 
investment fund and that the manager, as reconstituted, is a reputable investment adviser. 
I’ve got quite a few friends and clients that use Ruane, Cunniff, and I’ve advised them to stay 
with the place as reconstituted. I believe you’ve done the same thing, haven’t you? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Right. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: So we trust — we think the whole thing is fixed. 
Valeant, of course, was a sewer, and those who created it deserve all the opprobrium that they 
got. (Applause) 
29. Buffett leads in wager against hedge funds 
WARREN BUFFETT: In a few minutes we’ll break, but I think it almost ties in with this last 
question. 
If we could put slide 3 up. 
I promised — some years ago I made a wager — and I promised to report, before the lunch, 
how the wager was coming out. 
And I’ve been doing that regularly, but it probably seems appropriate, since it’s developed this 
far, to point out a rather obvious lesson, which is what I hoped to drive home, to some degree, 
by offering to make the wager originally. 
Incidentally, when I offered to make the wager, namely that somebody could pick out five 
hedge funds and I would take the unmanaged S&P index used by Vanguard Fund, and I would 
bet that over a ten-year period that the unmanaged index would beat these five funds that 
were all being managed, presumably — they could pick any five funds — that were managed by 
people who were charging incredible sums to people because of their supposed expertise. 
And, fortunately, there’s an organization called, or at least you go — if you go to the Internet, if 
you put in longbets.org — it’s a terribly interesting website. 
You can have a lot of fun with it because people take the opposite side of various propositions 
that have a long tail to them and make bets as to the outcome, and then they both give their — 
each side gives their reasons. 
And you can go to that website and you can find bets about, you know, whether — what 
population will be doing 15 years from now or — all kinds of things. 
And our bet became quite famous on there. They — and a fellow I like, who I didn’t know 
before this, Ted Seides, bet that he could pick out five hedge funds — these were funds of 
funds. 
In other words, there was one hedge fund at the top and then that manager picked out who he 
thought were the best managers underneath, and then bought into these other funds in turn, 
so that the five funds of funds represent, maybe, 100 or 200 hedge funds underneath. 
Now bear in mind that the hedge fund — the fellow making the bet — was picking out funds 
where the manager on top was getting paid, perhaps, 1/2 percent a year, plus a cut of the 
profits, for merely picking out who he thought were the best managers underneath, who in 
turn were getting paid, maybe, 1 1/2 or 2 percent, plus a cut of the funds’ profits. 
But certainly the guy at the top was incentivized to try and pick out great funds, and at the next 
level, those people were presumably incentivized, too. 
So the result is, after eight years, and several hundred hedge fund managers being involved, is 
that now the totally unmanaged fund by Vanguard with very, very minimal costs, is now 40-
some points ahead of the group of hedge funds. 
Now that may sound like a terrible result for the hedge funds, but it’s not a terrible result for 
the hedge fund managers. (Laughs) 
These managers — A), you’ve got this top-level manager that’s charging probably 1/2 percent, I 
don’t know that for sure, and down below you’ve got managers that are probably charging 1 
1/2 to 2 percent. 
So if you have a couple of percentage points sliced off every year, that is a lot of money. 
We have two managers at Berkshire that each manage $9 billion for us. They both ran hedge 
funds before. 
If they had a 2-and-20 arrangement with Berkshire, which is not uncommon in the hedge fund 
world, they would be getting $180 million each, you know, merely for breathing, annually. 
(Laughter) 
That — I mean that — it’s a compensation scheme that is unbelievable to me, and that’s one 
reason I made this bet. 
But what I’d like you to do is for a moment imagine that in this room we have the entire — you 
people own all of America, all the stocks in America are owned by this group. You are the 
Berkshire 18,000, or whatever it is, that has someone managed to accumulate all the wealth in 
the country. 
And let’s assume we just divide it down the middle, and on this side we put half the people — 
half of all the investment capital in the world — and that capital is what a certain presidential 
candidate might call “low energy.” 
In fact, they have no energy at all. They buy half of everything that exists in the investment 
world, 50 percent, everyone on this side. And so now half of it is owned by these — by these 
no-energy people. 
They don’t look at stock prices. They don’t turn on business channels. They don’t read The Wall 
Street Journal. They don’t do anything. They just — they are a slovenly group that just sits for 
year after year after year owning half of the country — half of America’s business. 
Now what’s their result going to be? Their result is going to be exactly average, as how America 
business does, because they own half of all of it. They have no expenses, no nothing. 
Now what’s going to happen with the other half? The other half are what we call the 
“hyperactives.” 
And the hyperactives, their gross result is also going to be half, right? They can’t — the whole 
has to be the sum of the parts here, and this group, by definition, can’t change from its half of 
the ultimate investment results. 
This half is going to have the same gross results — you’re going to have the same results as the 
low-energy — no-energy people, and they’re also going to have terrific expenses, because 
they’re all going to be moving around, hiring hedge funds, hiring consultants, paying lots of 
commissions and everything. 
And that half, as a group, has to do worse than this half. The people who don’t do anything 
have to do better than the people that are trying to do better. It’s that simple. 
And I hoped through making this bet to actually create a little example of that, but that offer 
was open to anybody. And I would make, incidentally, the same offer now except, you know, 
being around in 10 years to collect gets a little more problematic as we go through life. (Laughs) 
But it seems so elementary. But I will guarantee you that no endowment fund, no public 
pension fund, no extremely rich person, wants to sit in that part of the auditorium. 
They just can’t believe that because they have billions of dollars to invest that they can’t go out 
and hire somebody who will do better than average. I hear from them all the time. 
So this group over here, supposedly sophisticated people, generally richer people, hire 
consultants, and no consultant in the world is going to tell you, just buy an S&P index fund and 
sit for the next 50 years. 
You don’t get to be a consultant that way. And you certainly don’t get an annual fee that way. 
So the consultant’s got every motivation in the world to tell you, this year I think we should 
concentrate more on international stocks, or this year this manager is particularly good on the 
short side. 
And so they come in and they talk for hours, and you pay them a large fee, and they always 
suggest something other than just sitting on your rear end and participating in American 
business without cost. 
And then those consultants, after they get their fees, they, in turn, recommend to you other 
people who charge fees which, as you can see over a period of time, cumulatively eat up capital 
like crazy. 
So, I would suggest that what I felt sure — I didn’t feel sure because nothing — you can’t tell for 
sure about any 10-year period — but it certainly felt very probable or I wouldn’t have stuck my 
neck out. 
It just demonstrates so dramatically — I’ve talked to huge pension funds, and I’ve taken them 
through the math, and when I leave, they go out and hire a bunch of consultants and pay them 
a lot of money. And — it — just unbelievable. And the consultants always change the 
recommendations a little bit from year to year. They can’t change them 100 percent, because 
then it didn’t look like they knew what they were doing the year before, so they tweak them 
from year to year. 
And they come in and they have lots of charts and PowerPoint presentations, and they 
recommend people who, in turn, are going to charge them a lot of money. And they say, well, 
you can only get the best talent by paying 2-and-20, or something of the sort. 
And the flow of money from the hyperactive to what I call the helpers is dramatic, while this 
group over here sits here and absolutely gets the record of American industry. 
So I hope you realize that for most — for the population as a whole — American business has 
done wonderfully, and the net result of hiring professional management, you know, is a huge 
minus. 
And at the bookstore we have a little book called “Where Are the Customer’s Yachts?” written 
by Fred Schwed. I read it when I was about 10-years-old. Been updated a few — well it hasn’t 
been updated, but new editions have been put out a few times — but the basic lessons are 
there. 
That lesson is told in that book from 1940. It’s so obvious, and yet all the commercial push is 
behind telling you that you ought to think about doing something today that’s different than 
you did yesterday. 
You don’t have to do that. You just have to sit back and let American industry do its job for you. 
Charlie, do you have anything to add to my sermon? (Applause) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, you’re talking to a bunch of people who have solved their problem by 
buying Berkshire Hathaway. (Laughter) 
That worked even better. And there have been a few of these managers, the managers — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Sure. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — who’ve actually succeeded. They are a few in the universities who are 
really good. 
But it’s a tiny group of people. It’s like looking for a needle in a haystack. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. And when I was given the job of naming two in 1969, I knew — I knew 
two — I knew a couple of others. Charlie wasn’t interested in managing more money then, and 
my friend Walter Schloss would not scale up well, although he had a fabulous record over 45 
years, or thereabouts. 
But, you know, that was all I could come up with at that time. And fortunately, you know, I did 
have a couple. And the people who went with Sequoia Fund have been well-served, if they 
stayed for the whole period. 
But the — the people — there’s been far, far, far more money made by Wall — by people in 
Wall Street — through salesmanship abilities than through investment abilities. 
There are a few people out there who are going to have an outstanding investment record. But 
there are very few of them, and the people you pay to have identify them don’t know how to 
identify them. And — and they do know how to sell you. That’s my message. 
 
 
