What was interesting to me was when the minutes of the Fed from the period in 2007 and 2008 
came out, it was interesting to me how a number of the members of the Fed were not getting 
it, as to what was happening. 
That was really fascinating. It wasn’t — there were a lot of them that didn’t really understand, it 
seems that way, or some of them that didn’t understand just how serious things were. 
And so I give particular credit to Bernanke, considering the fact that he was really not getting a 
cons — certainly not a unanimous view from those surrounding him, that the kind of actions he 
knew were necessary, were really necessary. 
And yet, he went ahead with them. And in my opinion, did a masterful job. And from everything 
I’ve seen of Janet Yellen, I feel the same way about her. 
We will see how this movie plays out. You know, I do not know the answer as to what happens 
if you keep rates close to zero for a very, very long time. And keep absorbing more and more of 
the debt issuance of the country because so far, we’ve tapered, but we’re still buying. 
I’d be interested to hear Charlie’s thoughts on it. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, nobody, for instance, in Japan would ever have anticipated that 
interest rates would go way down and stay down for 20 years. 
And nobody would’ve expected common stocks to decline by huge amounts and stay down for 
20 years. 
So strange things have happened. And they’re very confusing to the economics profession. 
In fact, if you’re not confused, you really probably don’t understand it very well. 
And at Berkshire, what I noticed is there aren’t many long-term bonds being bought. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We — well, you know, in 2008, I wrote an article saying, you know, 
that — everybody was saying cash is king. Well, cash may have been king if you used it, but cash 
was the dumbest damn thing you could possibly own, you know, if you weren’t going to use it. 
And people cling to cash at — usually at the wrong times. 
But it is — a zero interest rate policy has had a huge effect, both in rejuvenating the economy 
and — and in terms of asset prices. 
It has not, in my view, produced a bubble. That doesn’t mean it can’t produce one. But this is 
not — this is not a bubble situation, at all, that we’re living in. But it’s an unusual situation that 
we’re living in. 
Any further thoughts, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, I’m as confused as you are. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh good. Good. (Laughter) 
That’s why we get along so well. 
35. How Berkshire benefits from being a conglomerate 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: This question concerns another uncertainty. It’s from Chris Gotcho (PH) of 
Gotcho Capital Management in New York City. 
“You’ve been looking for a credentialed bear to ask questions at this meeting. I’m not it. In fact, 
selling short on Berkshire would be quite silly. 
“However, in the long term, Berkshire has a business model of owning over 70 non- financial, 
unrelated businesses — bricks and chocolate, for example — which is a model that has almost 
universally not worked well in the past 100 years of American business. 
“The model has worked well for you two, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, who are uniquely 
talented. 
“But the question is, the probabilities do not seem likely to be favorable that their successors 
will be able to have it continue to work nearly as well.” 
So that is my question. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Actually, the — it’s interesting. 
The model has worked well for America. I mean, if you look at all these disparate businesses in 
America, they’ve done extraordinarily well over time. 
So if you want to look at the Dow Jones average as one entity — now, it was a changing group 
of companies over a 100-year period — but, you know, any business unit that goes from 67 — 
or 66 — to 11,497 while paying you out a fair amount of money every year, actually is a model 
that’s worked pretty well. But it hasn’t been, of course, under one management. 
But owning a group of good businesses is not a terrible business plan. A good many of the 
conglomerates were put together to perform financial magic of one sort or another. 
They were based upon — you know, if you go back to the Litton Industries and the Gulf and 
Westerns and just — you could name them by the hundreds. They were really put together — 
Ling-Temp — LTV, and — on the idea of serial issuance of stock, where you issued stock that 
was selling at 20 times earnings to buy businesses that were at ten times earnings. 
And it was the idea that somehow you could fool people into continuously riding along on this 
chain letter scheme, without the primary thought being given to what you were actually 
building in the management. 
I think our business plan makes nothing but great sense, to own a great group, a group of great 
businesses, diversified, outstanding managers, conservatively capitalized. 
And with one enormous advantage, which people don’t really understand. I mean, capitalism is 
about, in an important way, it’s about the allocation of capital. And we have a system at 
Berkshire where we can allocate capital without tax consequences. 
So we can move businesses from See’s Candy, to generate surplus capital, to other areas. It 
doesn’t hurt See’s in the process, and we can move it, as the textbooks say, to places where 
capital can be usefully employed, like wind farms or whatever it may be. 
So we are — you know — there’s nobody else really better situated to do that than Berkshire 
Hathaway, and it makes perfectly good sense. 
But it has to be applied with business-like principles, rather than with stock promotion 
principles. And I would say a great many of the conglomerates have been — have had, as their 
underlying premise, stock promotion. 
You know, you saw what happened with Tyco or — the serial acquirers were usually interested 
in issuing a lot of stock. 
I think if you had to look at one of the primary indicators of what sort of species you’re viewing, 
you would see whether somebody’s issuing — if they’re issuing stock continuously, one way or 
another, they’ve probably got a chain letter game going on. And that does come to a bad end. 
I think our method of acquiring for cash, and acquiring good businesses, and building many, 
many sources of growing earning power, I think, is a terrific model. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think there’re a couple of differences between us and the people 
who are generally thought to have failed at a conglomerate model. 
One is we have an alternative when there’s nothing to buy in the way of companies. We’ve got 
more securities to buy in the insurance company portfolios. And that’s an option which most of 
the other conglomerates didn’t have. 
Number two, they were hell bent to buy something or other quite regularly. And we don’t feel 
any compulsion to buy. We’re willing to just sit until something makes sense. 
We’re quite different. We’re a lot more like the Mellon brothers than we are like Gulf and 
Western. And the Mellon brothers did very, very well for what, 50, 60, 70 years. 
And they were willing to own minority interest, they were willing to grow companies, they were 
a lot like us. 
And so I don’t think we’re a standard conglomerate. And I think we’re likely to continue to do 
very well, sort of like if the Mellon brothers had just kept young forever. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now you’re talking. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. (Laughter) 
36. Praise for Forest River’s Pete Liegl 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan. 
JONATHAN BRANDT: Forest River is one of Berkshire’s better performing acquisitions. Since 
Berkshire purchased it in 2005, its sales have grown considerably faster than those of its 
principle competitor, Thor. And I believe it has taken the number one spot at retail for 
recreational vehicles. 
Can you explain what Forest River is doing differently from Thor? And tell us whether Forest 
River is accepting lower operating margins than Thor’s 7 percent to gain the share. 
Does Forest River have any sustainable, structural advantages over Thor that will help it 
maintain its number one position? 
Also, with three companies now accounting for about 80 percent of the share in the RV market, 
are there greater barriers to entry than in the past, or can a feisty upstart like Forest River, in its 
day, still come out of nowhere and gain a lot of share? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We bought a company called Forest River, run by a fellow named Pete 
Liegl, I’d say about ten years ago or so. 
And it’s interesting. Pete, who is not an MBA type at all, he’s a terrific guy, he built up a — 
(Laughter) 
That was not a statement, that was an observation. (Laughter) 
Pete built up a very successful, but much smaller, RV business. And he sold it to a private equity 
firm in the mid-1990s. And they promptly started telling him how to run it. And he, very shortly 
thereafter, told them to go to hell. 
And, not very long after that, it went broke, which is not an unusual — I would’ve predicted 
that. 
So Pete then bought it out of bankruptcy, and rebuilt it, and then came to see me about ten 
years ago. 
And in one afternoon — we went to dinner that night. He brought his wife and his daughter. 
And we bought the business. 
And he made me a couple of promises then. He’s very limited in his promises. I told him what 
I’d do. And we’ve lived happily ever after. 
I’ve never been to Forest River. It’s based in Elkhart, Indiana. I hope it’s there. I mean, maybe 
they’re just making up these figures — you know? 
I could see that. Some guy saying, “What figures shall we send Warren this month, you know, 
ha, ha, ha.” (Laughter) 
Pete does a terrific job of running the company. We made a deal at the time he came, on 
incentive comp and base comp. He’s never suggested a change, I’ve never suggested a change. 
He’s built the company to where it’ll do over — I think it’ll do over $4 billion of business this 
year. 
I’ve probably had three or four phone calls with him in the whole time. 
It’s his company. And he does a sensational job. 
I don’t know about the Thor-Forest River situation in terms of how tough it is to go in to 
compete with him. I think it’d be tough to compete with Pete under any circumstances. 
His IT department, for a $4 billion business, consists of six people. He just knows what’s going 
on in the place. 
And the important thing is that it’s his company. I couldn’t run an RV company, and we don’t 
have anybody at headquarters that could run one. 
It’s a tough business. And you do work on narrow margins, to get to your point on that, Jonny. 
The —it’s a business that runs with maybe 11 or 12 percent gross margins, and probably 5 to 6 
percent of SG&A. So, you know, your margins are in that 6-or-so percent range. 
We have a very good — both from his standpoint and from our standpoint — we worked out an 
incentive comp. Like I say, we worked it out that afternoon in Omaha when he came by. 
And it’s worked for him. It’s worked for us. You know, it couldn’t be a better arrangement. I 
wish we had 20 like it. 
And probably, most of our shareholders don’t even know we own Forest River. But that is a 
company that will do 4 billion of business this year, and I’ll bet will do more business over time. 
It’s the leader in its industry. The industry’s not going to go away. 
And, you know, maybe we can even sell a little insurance on RVs. So that’s the story on Forest 
River. 
37. Modest impact of Bakken oil shale on Berkshire 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 10. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Warren, Charlie. My name is Vishal Patel (PH). I’m visiting from 
Toronto, Canada, and my question is about the oil sands. 
Can you please share with the audience your view on the oil sands industry and their impact on 
Berkshire Hathaway? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, in terms of —are you thinking of the oil sands or are you thinking of 
shale production? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m thinking oil sands, Alberta. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Alberta, yeah. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Keystone XL. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It’s not a huge impact. We have a crane business at Marmon that does a lot 
of business in oil development, generally. But, certainly, is active in the oil sands. 
We will soon have a transmission operation that will cover 85 percent of Alberta. Alberta’s a big 
place. It’ll have 8,000 miles, or something like that, of transmission lines, for example. 
But the oil sands business is — I mean, you know, oil sands are huge. And we own some Exxon 
Mobil, when they’ve got an operation in the oil sands, obviously. 
One thing you might find kind of interesting, you know, we are moving 700,000 barrels a day of 
crude oil on our railroad. We’ve got — probably got — maybe, nine unit trains — now [BNSF 
Executive Chairman] Matt [Rose] can correct me on that — you know, that carry 100 cars or so. 
And each one has 650 barrels, or so, of oil so that — oil, you may find interesting, not only is 
there a significant advantage in terms of the flexibility of where you take it, so that spreads are 
different in different places, and you can move it to refineries that you might otherwise have 
trouble moving it to. Rail’s flexible that way. 
But rail, actually, you know — mentally, you think of oil gushing through pipelines. But rail is 
probably, I would say, close to twice as fast in moving oil as is — as are pipelines. 
But we recently bought a company from Phillips 66. We got it in an exchange for our Phillips 
stock. We bought a specialty chemicals company. 
And its main product is a chemical additive that causes oil to move through pipelines about 10 
percent faster than it would otherwise. So it may take a day off of a trip. 
So we’re actually in the pipeline business in a small way — the crude pipeline business — in a 
small way, through that. 
I don’t think — I think the oil sands are an important asset for mankind, obviously. There’s a 
huge amount of oil there. They’re an important asset for mankind, you know, in — over the 
centuries to come. 
But I don’t think there’s — I don’t think it will dramatically change anything at Berkshire. 
Matt might have a different view on that. I’ll ask Charlie to talk. And then if Matt would like to 
say anything, I’d be glad to hear from him, too. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, but, a lot of the oil sand production uses natural gas to produce the 
heavy oil. 
So it’s a very peculiar thing. It’s economic only if oil stays at a very high price, and it’s 
delightfully economic only if natural gas is too cheap. 
So it’s a very peculiar business. And it is good for mankind. But whether it’s a great investment 
or not, I haven’t the faintest idea. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Matt, would you — do you have anything to add on the crude situation 
there? 
38. Update on Buffett’s hedge fund bet 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’re at noon. 
I promised a group — some people — six years ago I made a bet for charity on how a index — 
Standard and Poor’s 500 index fund — would compare in performance to a group of hedge 
funds. And a firm in New York took me up on the bet. 
And I promised that every year I would give the up-to-date results on how we’re doing. And it’s 
getting to be more fun to give these results every year. (Laughter) 
We’re now six years into the bet. And it’s interesting, because the people who selected these 
funds are very decent people and smart people. And, obviously, the fund of funds gets paid 
based on the per — they get paid a fee, naturally. 
But they also get paid an additional performance fee based on how the hedge funds they select 
do. So they have every economic incentive to come up with a wonderful group of hedge funds. 
And underneath these fund — five funds of funds that are involved in the bet — there are 
probably, at least, 200 hedge funds that the fund of fund managers have carefully picked in 
order to enhance their own income. They got the ultimate motivation going for them. 
So we are now five years — six years — into the bet. And the first year, the fund of fund groups, 
in a down market, did considerably better than the S&P. 
But as you can see in the five years subsequently, the S&P has been running away, to some 
degree. 
Interestingly enough, we bought — we each put in 350, or something, thousand dollars, and we 
bought zero-coupon bonds so there would be a million dollars in ten years. 
We bought ten-year Treasurys, zero coupon. And we bought a million dollars principal. We each 
put up 350. 
Well, the way interest rates changed after a few years to practically zero rates, it meant the 
bonds, even though they had no coupons attached to them, practically went to par. 
So, a year or two ago, we sold the bonds at about 95 or 6, we got almost the full million dollars. 
We put that all in Berkshire stock. I guaranteed them that they would have a million dollars at 
the end of ten years, no matter what happened. 
And so the prize looks like it’s going to be quite a bit more than a million dollars when the ten 
years comes around, so. So, so far, everyone’s happy. 
 
 
