For example, the index puts at Berkshire sold between 2004 and 2008, generated a premium of 
almost 5 billion. 
Few years down the line, Berkshire benefited from the float. The indexes are higher and the 
time to maturity of the put got shorter. 
The question is, if the unwinding of the puts were acceptable by the counterparts which bought 
them, would you consider unwinding them at a reasonable price? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Are you speaking — you’re speaking specifically of the equity put options 
we have? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m speaking about them, but as just an example. I’m talking also of 
maybe reducing debts or doing other — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, what we hope, of course, is that what we call the excess cash, 
which is cash beyond 20 billion that we can put to work buying a business. But you can’t do, you 
know, one a week or one a month. So it’s opportunistic. 
And I don’t know whether the phone call that’s going to result in the next deal will come in next 
week or it may come in a year from now. 
We will get calls and we will put money to work. You know, we just — we can’t do it at an even 
flow. And we have, you know, virtually no debt. 
If someone had told the two of us 50 years ago that we’d be able to borrow money in euros 
with a long duration of 1 percent or something like that, we would have felt we would have 
ended up with a way different balance sheet than we have today. 
But, I mean, money is so cheap that it causes people to do almost anything on the asset side, 
and we try to avoid doing that because we don’t, you know, we don’t want to drop our 
standards too fast just because the liability side is costing us so little. 
But I don’t think — obviously, if we can unwind a derivative trade on a basis where we thought 
we were mathematically ahead by a significant amount, we would do it. 
But I think that’s very unlikely with the contracts we have now, so we’ll probably — I think it’s 
very likely they just run out over time. 
We carry a liability of well over — I think it’s getting somewhere between 3 1/2 and 4 billion — 
for something that has a settlement value today of 400 million. 
So it’s very hard for us to — it’s very hard for us on the other side of the contract to arrive at a 
price that we both would be happy with. 
We’re not going to deleverage Berkshire. There isn’t that much leverage to start with. 
I mean, the float really is, essentially, very close to permanent. I mean, it can decline a couple 
percent in a year, but it can also increase a few percent. 
So, I see no drain on funds of any consequence from the float for as far as the eye can see, and 
we have very little debt out. So I would not want to pay down the debt we have now. 
Logically, we probably should take on more debt at these prices, but that’s just not something 
that appeals to us. 
Maybe if we find a really big deal, we might take on a little more. I would like to at least have 
that as something I was thinking about. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We’d love to have something come along where we actually felt a little 
capital constrained. We haven’t felt capital constrained for a long time. 
It’s a problem we’d love to have, something so attractive that we — 
WARREN BUFFETT: We’d stretch a little. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We’d stretch a little. That would be glorious. 
And it could happen, by the way. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And it could happen. 
27. No economies of scale for auto dealers 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 9. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is George. I’m translating for 
my father, (inaudible), from Shanghai, China. 
Last year it was my father standing here asking his question, and this year it’s me. I feel so 
lucky. 
I know at the end of last year, you purchased a car sales dealer. This year, you said in your 
public letter that you are going to continue to buy. The ultimate purpose of investment is to 
seek the return. 
So my question is, whether the rate of return can be necessarily higher with the scale of the 
dealers? 
If so, why we cannot see that happen in China? How come the differences with the dealership 
business of the same nature in the United States and China? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I don’t know the dealership situation in China. 
I would say — I think I mentioned this a little earlier — that I don’t think we’re going to get 
significant benefits of scale as we buy more units in the auto field. I just don’t see where it 
would come from. 
But we don’t need it. What we really need is managers in those individual dealerships that have 
skin in the game of their own, and that run them, you know, as first-class businesses, 
independently. 
And that’s what we’ll be looking for. We’ll not be looking for scale. I don’t know the situation in 
China. Maybe Charlie knows more about that. I think he does. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. But I don’t think we’d be very good at running dealerships in China. And 
I think the people who run Van Tuyl are very good at running the ones here, so — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah with 17,000 here and we’ve got 81 of them, there’s a little room to 
expand. 
The problem is going to be price. Our purchase probably caused people to move up their 
multiples by one or two — people that have them — and we paid a full, but fair, price for Van 
Tuyl and we’ll be using that price, more or less, as a yardstick. 
And we really thought we bought the best there, so, if anything, we would be hoping to buy 
others, maybe for a bit less. 
So we will not — we may buy a lot of them, we may buy very few, just depending on price 
developments. 
The — we’re having a big car year and profits are good in the dealership field. But when profits 
are good, we want to pay a lower multiple. 
I mean, because, if we’re going to be in the car business forever, we’re going to have some 
good years and we’re going to have some bad years. And we would rather buy at a 10 or 12 
times multiple of a bad year than buy at an eight times multiple of a good year. 
And that’s not necessarily the way that sellers think, although they probably understand it, but 
they don’t want to think that way. So we’ll see what happens. 
28. Buffett values internet more than private jet 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 10. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. Mr. Buffett and Munger, very excited to be here. 
My name is (inaudible), also from Shanghai, China. Because now (inaudible) a company 
providing wealth management to the high-net wealth individuals in China. The company name 
is North, from North Ark (PH), listed at (inaudible). 
You two are my idols. What’s your secrets of keeping so young, so energetic, and so quick? 
Please don’t say because of Coca-Cola. (Laughter) 
And as someone says that old papa could not understand the internet, but I don’t believe that. 
What’s your opinion? Will you pay more attention to internet? Could I invite both two 
gentlemen to answer my question? Thank you very much. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, I didn’t get all that, so you — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, he asked are we going to be using the internet. 
Warren is a big internet user compared to me. And — but — 
WARREN BUFFETT: I love it. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: He plays bridge on it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I use a lot of — I use search. It’s been a huge change in my life, and it costs 
me a hundred dollars a year, or something like that. 
If I had to give up the plane or I had to give up the internet: the plane costs me a million-and-a-
half a year, the internet costs me a hundred dollars a year. You know, I wouldn’t want to give 
up either one of them, but I’d give up the plane. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Interesting. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie’s given up both. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Are we going to be doing more — I think everybody’s going to be doing 
more things on the internet. It is growing in importance. And so like it or not, we’re dragged 
into modern reality. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Doesn’t sound like he likes it, does it? (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No, I don’t like it. 
I don’t like multitasking. I see these people doing three things at once, and I think, God, what a 
terrible way that is to think. 
I am so stupid, though, I have to think hard about a thing for a long time. And the idea of 
multitasking my way to glory has never occurred to me. (Laughter) 
But at any rate, the internet is here and it’s going to be more and more important and 
everybody’s going to think more about it and do more about it, like it or not. And, of course, the 
younger people are way more prone to use it than we are. 
But Berkshire — you have what, how many Bloombergs now? 
WARREN BUFFETT: In the office? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do we have two or three. Mark? 
I don’t know. They don’t tell me about them. They sort of hide them when I come in the room. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We’re into the modern world. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We have — [CFO] Marc Hamburg tells me we have three — but we’ll 
reevaluate that situation when I get back to the office. (Laughter) 
What’s that? 
Oh, we’re not paying for one. I like that. (Laughter) 
Let’s see if we can not pay for two. (Laughter) 
No, the internet — and it’s changed many of our businesses. I mean, it’s changed GEICO’s 
business very, very dramatically. And it’s affecting — it affects them all, to one degree or 
another. 
It’s amazing to me — I mean, people get pessimistic about America. Just think in the last 20 or 
25 years—well, just 20 years on the internet—how dramatically it’s changed your life. 
You know, the game is not over yet. There’s all kinds of things that are going to happen to make 
life better. 
And Charlie may not think the internet makes life better, but when I compare trying to round 
up three other guys on a snowy day to come over to my house to play bridge, versus snapping 
the thing on and having my partner in San Francisco there and two other friends, and so on, in 
10 or 20 seconds, I think the world has improved. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, if I had your partner, I’d think it had improved, too. (Laughter) 
29. Raise earned income tax credit instead of minimum wage 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. I’m Whitney Tillson, a shareholder from New York. 
Mr. Buffett, I know many shareholders have felt irritation, to put it mildly, when you’ve 
weighed in on social issues such as tax policy, or endorsed and raised money for a particular 
candidate, but I, for one, applaud it. 
I think everyone, but especially people who’ve achieved wealth and prominence and thus have 
real ability to effect change, have a duty to try and make the world a better place, not just 
through charitable donations, but also through political engagement, and I’d say that even to 
people whose political views are contrary to my own. 
My question relates to one of the big issues today: rising income inequality, and related to that, 
the campaign to raise the minimum wage, which has had some recent successes with some of 
the largest businesses in the country like Walmart and McDonald’s. 
How concerned are you about income inequality? Do you think raising the minimum wage is a 
good idea? And do you think these efforts might meaningfully affect the profitability of 
corporate America? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I think income inequality is — I think it’s extraordinary, in the United 
States, to see how far we’ve gone. 
Well, just go back to my own case. Since I was born in 1930, the average GDP per capita in the 
United States has gone up six for one. 
Now, my parents thought they were living in a reasonably decent economy in 1930, and here 
their son has lived to where the average is six times what it was then. 
And if you’d asked them at that time, and they’d known that fact, that it would go from 8 or 
$9,000 in today’s terms to $54,000, they would have said, “Well, everybody in America is going 
to be enjoying a terrific life,” and clearly they’re not. 
So, I think it is a huge factor. There are a million causes for it, and I don’t pretend to know all 
the answers, in terms of working towards solutions. 
But I do think that everybody that is willing to work should have a reasonably decent livelihood 
in a country like the United States, and — (applause) — how that is best achieved — I’m 
actually going to write something on it pretty soon. 
I have nothing against raising the minimum wage, but to raise it to a level sufficient to really 
change things very much, I think, would cost a whole lot of jobs. 
I mean, there are such things as supply and demand curves. And if you were to move it up 
dramatically, I think you would — it’s a form of price fixing. I think you would change the 
opportunities available to people very dramatically. 
So I am much more of a believer in reforming and enlarging the earned income tax credit, 
which rewards people that work, but also takes care of those whose skills don’t fit well into a 
market system. So I think you put your finger on a very big problem. 
I don’t think — I don’t have anything against raising the minimum wage, but I don’t think you 
can do it in a significant enough way without creating a lot of distortions. 
Whereas, I do think the earned income tax credit makes a lot of sense and I think it can be 
improved. There’s a lot of fraud in it. It pays out this lump sum, so you get into these payday 
type loans against — I mean, there’s — a lot of improvements can be made in it. 
But I think the answer lies more in that particular policy than the minimum wage. And, like I 
said, I think I’m going to write something on it pretty soon. And if there’s anybody I haven’t 
made mad yet, you know, I’ll take care of it in the next one. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, you’ve just heard a Democrat speaking and here’s a Republican who 
says I agree with him. 
I think if you raise the minimum wage a lot, it would be massively stupid and hurt the poor, and 
I think it would help the poor to make the earned income credit bigger. (Applause) 
30. “Ridiculous argument” that college boosts lifetime earnings 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go to station 1. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. I’m Michael Monahan (PH) from Long Island, New York. 
Warren, Charlie, the higher education system has expanded, covering almost everyone who 
would like to receive a college education. This demand has translated into rising college costs. 
As a high school junior, I’m looking at prestigious institutions such as UPenn, Villanova, NYU, 
Fordham, and Boston University. 
On the other hand, my parents are experiencing sticker shock. All of these schools have a 
sticker price of over $60,000, with some students, as shown in a businessinsider.com article, 
can pay over $70,000, as the case at NYU. 
How will the average American family be able to pay this in the future and, more importantly, 
how do you two feel about this? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, the average American family does it by going to less expensive places 
and getting massive subsidies from the expensive places. 
If we had to give our college education to only people who could write cash checks for 60 or 
$70,000 a year, we wouldn’t have that many college students. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: So most people are paying less or getting subsidies. And — but I think it is a 
big problem, that education has just kept raising the price, raising the price, raising the price. 
And they say, but college educated people do better. It’s a big bargain. But maybe they do 
better because they were better to start with before they ever went to college, and they never 
tell you that. (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: It’s a ridiculous argument. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And so — 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think that’s one of the silliest statistics that they publish, I mean, to say 
that a college education is worth X because people that go to college earn this much more than 
the ones that don’t. You’re talking about two different universes. 
And to attribute the entire difference to the one variable, that they went to college as opposed 
to the difference between the people who want to go to college and have the ability to get into 
college — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s completely nutty — 
WARREN BUFFETT: — it’s a fraud 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — and about 70 percent of the people believe in it. So it gives you a certain 
hesitation about relying on your fellow man. (Laughter) 
So I think most people have to struggle through with the system the way it is. 
There’s a big tendency to have prices rise to what can be collected. And people just rationalize 
that the service is worth it. And I think a lot of that has happened in education, and, of course 
— (applause) — a lot is taught in higher education that isn’t very useful to the people who are 
learning it and, of course, a lot of those people would never learn much from anything. 
So it’s really wasting your time, and that’s just the way it works. So I think there’s a lot wrong. 
What I noticed that was very interesting is that when the Great Recession came, every 
successful university in America was horribly overstaffed and they all behaved just like 3G. They 
all, with a shortage of money, laid off a lot of people. And the net result was they all worked 
better when it was all over with the people gone. 
And so this right-sizing is not all bad. I don’t think there’s a college in America that wants to go 
back to its old habits. And — but you put your finger on — it is a real problem to look as those 
sticker shocks. 
It’s like any other problem in life. You figure out your best option and just live with it. 
We can’t change Villanova or Fordham. They’re going to do what they’re going to do. And as 
long as it works, they’ll keep raising the prices. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And it will keep working. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. And that’s pretty much the way the system works. 
When it really gets awful there’s finally a rebellion. In my place in Los Angeles, the little traffic 
accident got so it cost too much to everybody because of so much fraud, and the chiropractors, 
and some of the plaintiffs’ attorneys, and so on. 
And finally, the little accidents were costing so much that they worried about the guy who lived 
in a tough neighborhood who couldn’t afford to drive out to get a job. And the auto insurance 
companies thought, my God, with prices going up like this, they’ll have legislation creating state 
auto insurance or something. 
So the net result is they put the plaintiffs’ attorneys to trial in every case, and that fixed it. And 
maybe something like that will happen in higher education. But without some big incentive, I 
think higher education will just keep raising the prices. 
31. Bullish on China 
WARREN BUFFETT: On that cheerful note, we’ll move to station 2. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you for taking my question. 
My name is Brendan Chin (PH). I’m form Taipei, Taiwan. 
My question is, China is undergoing a number of structural changes. What do you — when you 
take the pulse of the Chinese economy, what do you read and what advice would you give? 
Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie’s the China expert. I think China’s going to do very fine over a period 
of time. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I’m a big fan for what’s happening in China. 
And as a matter of fact, I’ve just ordered — prepared — a bust of Lee Kuan Yew, the recently 
deceased ex-prime minister of Singapore, because I think he’s contributed so much to fixing, 
first Singapore, and then China. 
And one of the things Lee Kuan Yew did in China — in Singapore — was to stop the corruption, 
including cashiering some of his close friends. 
And China is doing the same thing. And I consider it the smartest damn thing I’ve seen a big 
country do in a long, long time, and I think that to — it’s hard to set the proper example if the 
leading political rulers are kleptocrats. 
You know, you don’t want to be run by a den of thieves. You want responsible people. 
And what Lee Kuan Yew did is he paid the civil servants way better and recruited very good 
people. And he just created a better system and, of course, China is widely copying him. And it’s 
a wonderful thing they’re doing. 
So I’m very high on what’s going on in China, and I think it’s — I think it’s very likely to work. If 
you — they’ve actually shot a few people. That really gets people’s attention. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now we’re starting to get some practical advice here. (Laughter) 
What has happened in China, you know, over the last 40 or so years, I mean, I — it just strikes 
me as totally miraculous. I don’t think — I would not have believed that a country could move 
so far so — a country of that size, particularly — so far so fast. And it’s — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It never happened before, in the history of the world, that a company so big 
had come so far. When I was a little boy, 80 percent of the population of China was illiterate 
and mired in subsistence poverty and agriculture. 
Now just think — and they’ve been through horrible wars and look at them. It’s one of the most 
remarkable achievements in the history of the Earth. 
And a few people made an extreme contribution to it, including this Chinese politician in 
Singapore. 
And I give the Communist Party a lot of credit for copying Lee Kuan Yew. 
That’s all Berkshire does is copy the right people. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. In 1790, the United States had 4 million people. China had 290 million 
people. 
They were just as smart as we were. They worked as hard, similar climate, similar soil. And for 
200 — close to 200 — years, you know, the United States went with those 4 million people to 
close to 25 percent of the world’s GDP and China really didn’t go anyplace. 
And then those same people, in 40 years — and they’re not working harder now than they 
were 40 years ago — they’re not smarter now than they were 40 years ago, in terms of the 
basic intelligence — and just look at what’s been accomplished. 
I mean, it does show you the human potential when you find a system that unleashes it, and we 
found a system that unleashed human potential a couple hundred years ago and they found a 
system that unleashed human potential 40 or 50 years ago. 
And, you know, when you see that example, you know, it has to have a powerful effect on what 
happens in the future. 
And it’s just amazing that you can have people go nowhere, basically, in their lives for centuries 
and then just — it explodes. And it just blows me away to see it, and you make it — it’s the 
same human beings, but they’ve — they found a way to unlock their potential and I 
congratulate them for it. 
And as Charlie said earlier, China and the United States are going to be the superpowers for as 
far as the eye can see. And it is really good for us, in my view, that the Chinese have found the 
way to unlock their potential. 
And I think its imperative for two countries with nuclear weapons that, in this kind of world, 
that they figure out ways to see the virtues in each other rather than the flaws. 
We’ll have plenty of disagreements with the Chinese, and they will with us, but remember that 
on balance, we’re both better off if the other one is doing well. That’s just my own view. OK. 
(Applause) 
32. “We just kept reading … and went with our instincts” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 3, please. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is Chander Chawla and I’m 
from San Francisco. Thank you for the last 50 years of sharing your wisdom and being an 
exemplar of integrity. 
Fifty years ago, when you were starting out or getting into new industries, how did you figure 
out the operational metrics for a new industry where you did not have previous experience? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we — A) we didn’t have it thought out that well, in a sense, at that 
time. 
But we basically looked for companies where we thought we could understand what the future 
would look like 5 or 10 or 15 years hence. And that didn’t mean we had to do it to four decimal 
places or anything of the sort, but we had to have a feel for it, and we had to know our 
limitations. So we stayed away from a lot of things. 
And at that time, prices were different, so we — in terms of knowing we were getting enough 
for our money, it was a much easier decision than it is currently. 
But it wasn’t — they weren’t elaborate — well, there were no planning sessions or anything of 
the sort. We just kept reading and we kept thinking and we kept looking at things that came 
along, as Charlie described it in the movie, and you know, comparing Opportunity A with 
Opportunity B. 
And in those days, we were capital constrained, so we usually had to sell something if we were 
going to buy something else. And that always makes for — you know, that’s the — an 
interesting challenge, always, when you’re measuring something you hold against something 
that has come along and to see which is more attractive. 
And we probably leaned very much toward things where we felt we were certain to get a 
decent result than where we were hopeful of getting a brilliant result. 
Went with our instincts, and kept putting one foot in front of the other. 
Charlie, what would you say? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, that’s exactly what we did, and it worked wonderfully well. And part 
of it is because we were such splendid people and worked so constructively, and part of it is we 
were a little lucky. We had some good fortune. 
Now, Warren says he was lucky to go to GEICO, but not every 20-year-old was going down to 
Washington, D.C., and knocking on the doors of empty buildings to try and find something out 
that he was curious about. 
So we made some of our luck by being curious and seeking wisdom, and we certainly 
recommend that to anybody else. 
And there’s nothing that produces wisdom more thoroughly than really getting your own nose 
whacked hard when you make a mistake, and we had a firm amount of that, didn’t we? 
WARREN BUFFETT: We had plenty of them. If you read this book, you’ll see about a few of 
them. 
We thought we knew the department store business in Baltimore and we thought we knew 
about the trading stamp business. 
We’ve had a lot of experience with bad businesses, and that makes you appreciate a good one. 
And to some extent, it sharpens your ability to make distinctions between good and bad ones. 
And we’ve had a lot of fun along the way. That helps too. If you’re enjoying what you’re doing, 
you know, you’re likely to get a better result than if you go to work with your teeth clenched 
every morning. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think we were helped because we came from families where there was 
some admirable people, and we tended to identify other admirable people better than we 
would have coming from a different background. 
So, my deceased wife used to say, you can’t accomplish much in one generation. 
We owe a considerable amount, both of us, to the families we were raised in. I think the family 
standards helped us to identify the good people more easily than we would have if we’d had a 
more disadvantaged background. 
Do you agree with that, Warren? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Have you still got your father’s briefcase? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve still got it, but I don’t know where it is. (Laughter) 
Can’t carry it anymore. It’s worn out. It’s got holes in it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’ve got my dad’s desk from 75 years ago. 
33. How Buffett found his first investors 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Warren and Charlie. This is Cora and Dan Chen from Talguard in Los 
Angeles, and we’re thrilled to be here again. 
Thank you for planting the seeds for which my generation can sit under the shade, and for my 
children’s generation with “The Secret Millionaires Club,” so that they can sit under the shade. I 
walk amongst giants. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Go on. Go on. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That’s all I have. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Don’t hold back. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Seriously though, thank you so much for everything you’ve taught us. 
WARREN BUFFET: Thank you. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: How were you able to persuade — (applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: How were you able to persuade your early investors, all early on, besides 
your family and friends, to overcome their doubts and fears and to believe in what you’re 
doing? 
There’s a lot of other asset classes out there, such as — a lot of people believe, real estate, 
bonds, gold. How were you able to get over that? And something I’ve been really dying to ask 
you — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We didn’t do very well until we had a winning record. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Prior to the early winning record, how were you able to get them to buy 
into what you were trying to do? 
I mean, no one has ever done what you’re doing, and no one has, still. And I’ve been really 
wanting to ask you, in the past, you said you’re 90 percent Graham and 10 percent Fisher. 
Where does that percentage stand today? 
Thank you again from a grateful student of your teachings, and my children love what you do, 
too. They wrote you a letter. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) 
A lot of it — you know, I started selling stocks here when I was 20 years old. I got out of 
Columbia. And although I was 20, I looked about 16 and I behaved like I was about 12. 
So I was not — I did not make a huge impression selling stocks. I used to just walk around 
downtown and call on people, which is the way it was done, and then I went to work for 
Graham. 
But when I came back, the people that joined me, actually — one of my sisters, her husband, 
my father-in-law, my Aunt Alice, a guy I roomed with in college, and his mother, and I’ve 
skipped one — but in any event, those people just had faith in me. 
And my father-in-law, who was a dean at the University — what was then the University of 
Omaha — he gave me everything he had, you know, and to quite an extent they all did. 
And so it was — they knew I’d done reasonably well by that time. That would have been 1956, 
so I’d been investing five or six years. And actually, I was in a position where when I left New 
York and came back to Omaha, I had about $175,000 and I was retired. 
So I guess they figured if I was retired at 26, I must be doing something right and they gave me 
their money. 
And then it just unfolded after that. An ex-stockholder of Graham-Newman, the president of a 
college came out, Ben Graham was winding up his partnership for his fund and he 
recommended me. 
And then another fellow saw the announcement in the paper that we formed a partnership and 
he called me and he joined, and just one after another. 
And then, actually, a year or two later, a doctor family called and they were the ones that 
ended up with me meeting Charlie. 
So a lot of stuff just comes along if you just keep plodding along. 
But the record, later on, of the partnership attracted money, but initially it was much more just 
people that knew me and had faith in me. But these were small sums of money. We started 
with 105,000. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, of course that’s the way you start, and — but it’s amazing. We’ve now 
watched a lot of other people start. And the people that have followed the old Graham-
Newman path have one thing in common: they’ve all done pretty well. I can hardly think of 
anybody who hasn’t done moderately — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Everybody did well, yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: So, if you just avoid being a perfect idiot — (laughter) — and have a good 
character and just keep doing it day after day, it’s amazing how it will work. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It was accident, to a significant extent. 
If a few of those people hadn’t have said to me, you know, “What should I buy?” And I said, 
“I’m not going to go back in the stock brokerage business, but I will — you know, we’ll form a 
partnership and, you know, your fate will be the same as mine and I won’t tell you what I’m 
doing.” 
And they joined in, and it went from there. 
But it was not — it was not planned out in the least. Zero. 
I met Charlie, and he was practicing law, and I told him that was OK as a hobby, but it was a 
lousy business. (Laughter) 
And so he — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Fortunately, I listened. (Laughter) 
It took a while, however. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
34. Munger: rationality is a moral virtue 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 5. We’ve got — 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Arthur. I’m from Los Angeles. I want to thank you for 
having us in your hometown. 
And we’ve all been listening to your business prowess and all your successes. There’s no 
question that you’re good at business and finance and have fun doing it. 
But there are comments that you’ve made on income inequality, giving away 99 percent of your 
wealth, and I’m led to believe that you’re motivated by more than just amassing wealth or 
financial gains. 
So, I’d like to speak to your value core and ask what matters to you most and why? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, what matters to you most? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that I had an unfortunate channeling device. 
I was better at figuring things out than I was at everything else. I was never going to succeed as 
a movie star, or as an athlete, or as an actor, something, so — and I, early, got the idea that — 
partly from my family, my grandfather, in particular, whose name I bore, had the same idea — 
that really, your main duty is to become as rational as you could possibly be. 
I mean, rationality was just totally worshiped by Judge Munger, and my father and others. 
And since I was good at that and no good at anything else, I was steered in something that 
worked well for me and — but I do think rationality is a moral duty. 
That’s the reason I like Confucius. He had the same idea all those years ago. And I think 
Berkshire is sort of a temple of rationality. What’s really admired around Berkshire is somebody 
who sees it the way it is. Wouldn’t you agree with that, Warren? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: More than anything, more than — 
WARREN BUFFETT: You better see it the way it is. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Huh? 
WARREN BUFFETT: You better see it the way it is. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: See it the way it is. 
And so, that’s the way I did it. 
But that goes beyond a technique for amassing wealth. To me that’s a moral principle. 
I think if you have some easily removable ignorance and keep it, it’s dishonorable. I don’t think 
it’s just a mistake or a lack of diligence. I think it’s dishonorable to stay stupider than you have 
to be, and so that’s my ethos. 
And I think you have to be generous because it’s crazy not to be. We’re a social animal, and 
we’re tied to other people. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I would say — this doesn’t sound very noble, but the — what matters 
to me most now, and probably has for some time — I mean, there are things that matter that 
you can’t do anything about, I mean, in terms of health and the health of those around you and 
all that — but actually, what matters to me most is that Berkshire does well. 
Basically, I’m in a position where we’ve probably got a million or more people that are involved 
with us, and it just so happens that it’s enormously enjoyable to me so I can rationalize it, the 
activity. 
But I would not be happy if Berkshire were doing poorly. That doesn’t mean whether the stock 
goes down or whether, you know, the economy has a bad year. 
But if I felt that we weren’t building something every year that was better than what we had 
the year before, I would not be happy. 
And, you know, I get this enormous fun out of it and I get to work with people I like and — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But that’s very important. Truth of the matter is it’s easy for somebody like 
Warren or me to lose a little of our own money, because it doesn’t matter that much, but we 
hate losing somebody else’s. 
It’s — and that’s a very desirable attitude to have in a civilization. 
Don’t you hate losing Berkshire money? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. That would be the only thing that would keep me up at night. 
(Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We won’t do it. 
We can lose money on individual things, obviously. We can have bad years in the economy, and 
we can have years the stock market goes down a lot. That doesn’t bother me in the least. 
What bothers me is if I do something that actually costs Berkshire, in terms of its long-term 
value, and then I feel, you know, I do not feel good about life on that day. 
But we can avoid most of that, fortunately. We do get to pick our spots. We’re very fortunate 
with that. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, a good doctor doesn’t like it when the patient dies on the table, 
either, you know. (Laughter) 
Not a new thought. (Laughter) 
35. No help for “the most intelligent question” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Let’s go to — let’s go to station 6. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is Petra Bergman. I’m from 
Stockholm, Sweden, in northern Europe. I work at something called EFN.SE. 
I wanted to ask you, from my point of view, what would be the answer to the most intelligent 
question I could ask you right now? (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Everybody tries that question, and it would be wonderful if that would solve 
all your problems. But I don’t think it’s a very good question. (Laughter) 
Or perhaps I should say — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s phrase that differently, Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, what I mean is, you’re asking too much of somebody when you — you 
ask him to honestly say what is the most enlightening question he can answer. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I get that asked by the students a lot. And I’ve had a lot of practice in 
hearing it asked, but I haven’t had very much success in answering it. 
So I’ll have to beg off on that one. 
36. Buffett on fun and “the game” 
WARREN BUFFETT: How about 7? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon, Warren and Charlie. Congrats on 50 years. My name is 
Jim and I’m from Brooklyn, New York. 
This is kind of a follow-on to a recent question. You both had success in investing, even before 
Berkshire Hathaway, as investors and as fund managers. 
While it’s well known you closely followed Graham’s teachings, others, like Walter Schloss and 
his son, also had success with similar teachings, yet different strategies. 
What would you cite as the most important reason for your early success with small amounts of 
capital, and given hindsight today, what might you have done to improve your strategy with 
these small funds? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I had a great teacher, I had exceptional focus, and I had the right 
sort of emotional qualities that would help me in being an investor. 
I enjoyed the game. You do give it all back in the end. It wouldn’t make any difference if I — you 
know, that was not the key thing. 
The game was enormously fun. And I think Gene McCarthy said about football one time, you 
know, it’s just about, you know, hard enough to be interesting but not so hard as to be beyond 
the capabilities of people understanding it, and that’s kind of the way this game is. 
I mean, it’s not like Henry Singleton, kind of questions he took on. It’s actually a pretty easy 
game, and it does require a certain emotional stability. 
And I went at it hammer and tong. I went through the manuals and everything, but I was 
enjoying when I did it. 
And, like I say, I started out — between ages seven and about 19, I had that same enthusiasm, 
but I didn’t really have any guiding principle. 
And then I ran into “The Intelligent Investor” and Ben Graham. And then at that point, I was 
able to take all this energy and everything, and enthusiasm for it, and now I had a philosophy 
that made a lot of sense — total sense — and I found that I could employ, and so the game 
became even more fun. But it wasn’t really more complicated than that. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t have anything to add. 
I do think that it’s an easy game if somebody has the temperament for it and keeps at it 
because he’s — likes it and it’s interesting — interested in it. 
I have a problem that Warren has less of. I don’t like being too much an example to people who 
want to get rich by being shrewd and buying and passively holding securities. 
I don’t think that’s enough of a life. If you wrest a fortune from life by being shrewder than 
other people and buying little pieces of paper, I don’t think that’s an adequate contribution in 
exchange for what you’re taking. 
So, I like it when you’re investing money for an endowment, or a pension fund, or your 
relatives, or something, but I never considered it enough of a life to merely be shrewd in picking 
stocks and passively holding them. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Running Berkshire has been far, far more fun than running, in my 
case, multiple partnerships, or just an investment fund. I mean, that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You’d be less of a man. If you’d run that partnership — 
WARREN BUFFETT: It would be a crazy way to go through life. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I mean, it just — you know, Berkshire is incredibly more satisfying. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: So if you’re good at just investing your own money, I hope you’ll morph into 
doing something more. 
37. Dow Jones’s big missed opportunity 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’ll do 8 and then we’ll move onto the annual meeting. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is John Boxtose (PH). I’m from South Dartmouth, 
Massachusetts. 
My question was regarding an interview that you gave, Mr. Buffett, several years ago. 
You made a very interesting point. It was about the old Wall Street Journal, if you will, the one 
before it was purchased by News Corp. 
You mentioned in the interview that Wall Street Journal, at some point in the past, had very 
significant competitive advantages, but a number of them were largely unrealized. 
I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that, what the advantages were, how they were 
unrealized, et cetera. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, Dow Jones, which owned the Wall Street Journal, you know, in the 
’60s and ’70s, going into the era of the enormous spread of financial information — and value 
of financial information — you know, they basically, they owned the field. 
They had the news ticker and they had the Journal, which, you know, anybody interested in 
finance in the country identified with. 
And they — starting with that, in what would be an incredible growth industry, finance, you 
know, for the next 30 or 40 years they — I forget a couple of those ventures they went into, 
and they bought a chain of small newspapers, I remember, one time — and they just totally 
missed what was going to happen. 
You know, here comes Michael Bloomberg and, you know, takes away financial information. 
They had such an advantage. And they didn’t really see various areas that they could have 
pursued, which could have turned that company into something worth many hundreds of 
billions of dollars, in all probability. 
And, you know, they had a situation where a family owned it, and a lawyer essentially 
controlled the family’s behavior, and they were sitting pretty. You know, they were all getting 
dividends, but there was nobody there with any imagination as to what could be done in the 
financial field. 
So, starting with this position, they were a trusted name, they were in every brokerage firm in 
the country with a news ticker. 
I mean, I went to Walter Annenberg’s house one time and he had the Dow Jones ticker there — 
it just — or the news ticker. 
And it was — they couldn’t have been in a better place. They couldn’t have started with a 
stronger position. They had a very good balance sheet. And they just let the world pass them 
by. 
Now, Rupert is changing it into a different newspaper. He’s going into — he’s basically going 
into competition with the — or he’s gone into competition — with the New York Times, so he 
— but that’s the game he likes. And it makes for a very interesting competitive situation. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, they did end up with 6 or $7 billion, so they may have blown their 
opportunities, but they didn’t destroy their fortune. 
WARREN BUFFETT: If you’d had the hand — if Tom Murphy had had the hand — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh, yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: — it would have been in the hundreds of billions, wouldn’t it? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t know. I’m not sure if we had had that hand we would have — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’m not so sure. I’m talking about Murph. (Laughs) 
There were a lot of opportunities there. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think even Murph is more like us than he is like Bill Gates. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’m not sure where that goes, but... (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, but I think it’s hard to invent new — entirely new — modalities and so 
on. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think Bill would have done well with Dow Jones, too. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. He might — 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’d like to buy into that retroactively. 
38. Q&A concludes 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. 3:30 has arrived. We’re going to go to the annual meeting in about five 
minutes. We’ve got a certain amount of formal business to take care of. And I thank you all for 
coming. (Applause) 
39. Berkshire’s formal annual business meeting 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s reassemble and we’ll conduct the business of the meeting. 
The meeting will now come to order. I’m Warren Buffett, chairman of the board of directors of 
the company, and I welcome you to this 2015 annual meeting of shareholders. 
This morning I introduced the Berkshire Hathaway directors that are present. 
Also with us today are partners in the firm of Deloitte & Touche, our auditors. They are 
available to respond to appropriate questions you might have concerning the firm’s audit of the 
accounts of Berkshire. 
Sharon Heck is secretary of Berkshire Hathaway, and she will make a written record of the 
proceedings. 
Becki Amick has been appointed inspector of elections at this meeting. She will certify to the 
count of votes cast in the election for directors and the motion to be voted at this meeting. 
The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott and Marc Hamburg. 
Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares outstanding, entitled to 
vote, and represented at the meeting? 
