I welcome you to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Marc Hamburg is secretary of 
Berkshire Hathaway. He will make a written record of the proceedings. 
Rebecca Amick has been appointed inspector of elections at this meeting. She will certify to the 
count of votes cast in the election of directors and the motions to be voted upon at this 
meeting. 
The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott and Marc Hamburg. 
38. Quorum 
WARREN BUFFETT: Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares 
outstanding entitled to vote and represented at the meeting? 
MARC HAMBURG: Yes, I do. As indicated in the proxy statement that accompanied the notice of 
this meeting that was sent to all shareholders of record on March 3rd, 2021, the record day for 
this meeting, there were 639,747 shares of Class A Berkshire Hathaway common stock 
outstanding, with each entitled to one vote on motions considered at the meeting, and 
1,335,074,355 shares of Class B Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each 
share entitled to 1/10,000th of one vote on motions considered at the meeting. 
Of that number, 456,040 Class A shares and 663,442,069 Class B shares are represented at this 
meeting by proxies returned through Thursday evening, April 29th. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. That number represents a quorum, and we will therefore 
directly proceed with the meeting. 
39. Minutes of previous meeting approved 
WARREN BUFFETT: The first order of business will a reading of the minutes of the last meeting 
of shareholders. 
I recognize Miss Debbie Bosanek, who will place a motion before the meeting. 
DEBBIE BOSANEK: I move that the reading of the minutes of the last meeting of shareholders be 
dispensed with and the minutes be approved. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do I hear a second? 
FEMALE VOICE: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The motion is carried. 
40. Board of directors elected 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is to elect directors. I recognize Miss Debbie 
Bosanek to place a motion before the meeting with respect to election of directors. 
DEBBIE BOSANEK: I move that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Gregory Abel, Howard Buffett, 
Steven Burke, Kenneth Chenault, Susan Decker, David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Ajit Jain, 
Thomas Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as directors. 
FEMALE VOICE: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It has been moved and seconded that the 14 individuals named in Miss 
Bosanek’s motion be elected as directors. The nominations are ready to be acted upon. 
Mr. Hamburg, when you are ready, you may provide the voting results from Miss Amick’s 
preliminary report. 
MARC HAMBURG: Miss Amick has reported that the ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast not less than 473,474 votes for 
each nominee. 
Miss Amick’s report also states that this number exceeds a majority of the number of the total 
votes of all Class A and Class B shares outstanding. The report also states that the certification 
required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be placed with the minutes of 
this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you Mr. Hamburg. The 14 nominees have been elected as directors. 
41. Climate change shareholder proposal 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next two items of business relate to two shareholder proposals that are 
each set forth in the proxy statement that can be accessed at BerkshireHathaway.com. If you 
haven’t read those proposals, just go to BerkshireHathaway.com, because they’re interesting 
proposals. 
And the proponents’ views are set forth well there, and I think our views are set forth. And I 
welcome you reading it. 
To get back to the script, the first proposal requests that the company publish an annual 
assessment addressing how the company manages physical and transitional climate-related 
risks and opportunities. 
The directors have recommended that the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now recognize Tim Youmans, a representative of Federated Hermes to present the 
proposal. 
I think we’re connected up with Mr. Youmans. 
TIM YOUMANS: I thank the chair — I thank the chair of the board and fellow shareholders. 
I’m Tim Youmans, Lead North America EOS at Federated Hermes, here today on behalf of item 
two cosponsors Federated Hermes, CalPERS, the California Public Employees’ Retirement 
System, and CDPQ, Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, and our combined millions of 
ultimate beneficiaries. 
For well more than a year, the parent company has been unresponsive to the co-sponsors’ 
requests to discuss the parent company’s lack of climate-related financial disclosures. 
In order to have some kind of dialogue with the parent company, we have co-filed a proposal 
that Berkshire Hathaway’s board issue a report annually assessing how the company manages 
physical and transitional climate-related risks and opportunities, including climate-related 
financial reporting, where material, for subsidiaries and for the parent company, how the board 
oversees climate-related risks for the combined enterprise, and the feasibility of the parent 
company and its subsidiaries establishing science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets 
consistent with limiting climate change to well below 2 degrees. 
We ask that the annual assessment follows the recommendations of the task force on climate-
related financial disclosures, TCFD. 
The board argues that since it manages its operating businesses on an unusually decentralized 
basis, and there are few centralized or integrated business functions, the board believes that 
the shareholder proposal is inconsistent with Berkshire’s culture. 
The co-sponsors note, despite Berkshire’s culture and decentralized management, shareholders 
can only purchase shares in the combined parent company entity. Shares cannot be purchased 
in the individual subsidiaries that may or may not have the climate disclosures that the board 
cites in its opposition statement. 
The company has more than a hundred billion dollars in cash equivalence. The co-sponsors, and 
many in the $54 trillion climate action 100-plus investor coalition, want the parent company to 
put more resources into sustainability and in mitigating the financial impact of climate change 
and the energy transition. 
The company’s sustainability website consists only of links to 15 subsidiaries. We note the 
parent company has 60 subsidiaries. 
This is insufficient disclosure to shareholders who think that sustainability risks, especially 
climate risks, may be material to the parent company’s long-term future prospects, of course, 
recognizing the company’s strong past financial performance. 
No doubt, climate change and the energy transition to a low-carbon economy pose a systemic 
risk to the economy. The company’s auditor, Deloitte, says on its website, “Climate change is 
not a choice, it’s billions of them. We are all compelled to act.” 
Deloitte does not assess climate change-related financial impacts in the company’s audit. When 
asked by the co-sponsors why climate change impacts are excluded from audits like Berkshire’s, 
Deloitte failed to provide any meaningful reply. 
In his new book, former Berkshire director Bill Gates says, “Companies accepting more risk is 
needed to avoid climate disaster,” and “shareholders and board members will have to be more 
willing to share in this risk, making it clear to executives that they’ll back smart investments 
even if they don’t ultimately pan out.” This is the Gates position, and the chair is one of three 
Gates Foundation trustees. 
We ask the board to take the cultural risk for a modest degree of centralization needed to issue 
the annual climate-related financial assessment. We all need to take action now to limit climate 
change impact on our long-term sustainability. 
We strongly urge Berkshire Hathaway shareholders to support item two, as climate risk may be 
material to the parent company. 
And we have a question for the chair. Will you please change your mind and vote your personal 
shares in support of item two? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Mr. Youmans. 
The proposal is now ready to be acted upon. Mr. Hamburg, when you’re ready, you may 
provide the voting results disclosed in Miss Amick’s preliminary report. 
MARC HAMBURG: Ms. Amick’s report states that the ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast 131,376 votes for the motion 
and 385,336 votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, the motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be placed with 
the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Mr. Hamburg. The proposal fails. 
42. Employee diversity shareholder proposal 
WARREN BUFFETT: The second shareholder proposal requests that Berkshire Hathaway 
companies annually publish reports assessing their diversity and inclusion efforts. 
The directors have recommended that the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now ask that the audiotape provided by Meredith Benton, a representative of As You Sow, 
be played to present the proposal. 
MEREDITH BENTON: Hello. I am Meredith Benton. I am speaking on behalf of the nonprofit 
advocacy organization, As You Sow, and I am also the CEO of the consultancy Whistle Stop 
Capital. 
I formally move proposal number three, asking for Berkshire Hathaway to report on how it 
assesses diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts, including the process that the board follows for 
determining the effectiveness of its diversity and inclusion programs, and how it assesses goals, 
metrics, and trends related to recruitment, promotion, and retention. 
What would it mean if the majority of Berkshire’s operating units weren’t managing their 
diversity programs? It would mean that Berkshire companies are missing out on the benefits 
that an inclusive workplace culture can provide, such as, according to the studies, access to top 
talent, to good people, better understanding of consumer preferences, a stronger mix of 
leadership skills, informed strategy discussions, and improved risk management. 
Best practices in diversity and inclusion reporting exist and are increasingly standardized across 
companies. Berkshire companies can publish their workforce composition through their 
consolidated EEO-1 form. This form is already submitted to the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, so it requires no additional effort on behalf of the companies to collect or 
reconcile. 
It is a universally disliked form, but it is standardized, and companies will often publish their 
EEO-1 along with an explanation of their own internal structures and ways. 
Seventy-two of the S&P 100 companies publicly share, or have committed to share, this form. 
To my knowledge, no Berkshire company currently does — not one. 
The release of workforce composition data is akin to a balance sheet detailing diversity at a 
single point in time. Just as a balance sheet would by itself be insufficient to identify the 
strength of a company’s financials, so, too, the EEO-1, by itself, is insufficient in assessing 
effectiveness of DEI programs. 
The company’s inclusion data, the hiring, retention, and promotion rates of diverse employees 
must also be shared. Investors need to have a full understanding of the actual experience of 
Berkshire employees. 
In theory, companies should want to share their retention data. If it’s a good company to work 
for, people want to stay, and they should want to share their promotion data, in theory. 
If it’s a company that hires good people and treats them well, those good people will ascend, 
with mentorship and time. 
Seventy percent of the S&P 500 currently share diversity and inclusion data at some level — 
70%. 
Only 22% of Berkshire companies do, at any level, and only four Berkshire companies speak to 
workplace equity with any meaningful depth. 
Berkshire is a serious outlier here. 
Berkshire’s famously decentralized. Its units operate independently. Yet, if an issue isn’t 
conveyed as important from headquarters, can we expect it to be prioritized by an operating 
unit? 
Here’s the thing. Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger, board members, and the team headquarters, you 
may each individually truly and genuinely hire, mentor, and promote the best people for the 
job regardless of their gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or any immutable 
characteristic. 
But we can’t conclude that this is the mindset of each of your employees, managers, and hiring 
directors. 
Berkshire headquarters can’t sit passively and hope that their independent units are addressing 
bias and discrimination in their workplace. Active management, proactive attention, is needed. 
In its statement in opposition to the proposal, the board said, “Mr. Buffett, Berkshire’s 
chairman and CEO, has set the tone at the top for Berkshire and its employees for over 50 
years.” It also states, “Mr. Buffett has a record of opposing efforts seen or unseen to suppress 
diversity or religious inclusion.” 
Mr. Buffett holds extraordinary influence over his own companies and over the broader 
business community. He opposes efforts to suppress diversity. Given that, we ask for him to 
step forward decisively, in his own inimitable words, in his own inimitable way, to detail how 
important diversity and inclusion is to his companies, the expectations he has, and the efforts 
he expects to see, the metrics that will be used to judge success. 
Actions speak louder than words, but silence here speaks volumes. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. The proposal is now ready to be acted upon. 
Mr. Hamburg, when you are ready, you may provide the voting results disclosed in Miss Amick’s 
preliminary report. 
MARC HAMBURG: Ms. Amick’s report states that the ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast 124,842 votes for the motion 
and 391,662 votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, the motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be placed with 
the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Mr. Hamburg. The proposal fails. 
43. Meeting adjourns 
DEBBIE BOSANEK: I move — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Miss Bosanek? Yeah. 
DEBBIE BOSANEK: I move that this meeting be adjourned. 
FEMALE VOICE: I second the motion to adjourn. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Motion to adjourn has been made and seconded. 
This meeting is adjourned, and I would just like to add one final comment that I really hope, and 
I think the odds are very, very good that we get to hold this next year in Omaha. 
And I hope that we get a record turnout of Berkshire shareholders, and we look forward to — 
we really look forward — to meeting you in Omaha — I guess it’ll be next April 30th, but we’ll 
be sure of that date a little later. 
So, thank you for watching and we will see you next year, and hopefully, in Omaha. 
 
 
