AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Marc Rabinov from Melbourne, Australia. I had a two-part question on 
the 2005 annual report. 
Firstly, NetJets is a substantial part of our operations. Unfortunately, its value is obscured by 
losses in recent years, and I can’t estimate its value from the report. I was hoping you might be 
able to help me on that. 
The second thing, how do I value the Berkshire Hathaway reinsurance group in light of the 
deferred charges on retroactive policies? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The second question, that — about the — we have an item that’s about $2 
billion on the asset side. 
I think I’m addressing the question of deferred charges on retroactive policies. That reflects the 
fact that those retroactive policies, where we insure — we reinsure, in effect — the losses that 
somebody has already incurred, although they may not know how much they’ve incurred, and 
we have limits on these. 
But we set up a factor that, essentially, recognizes the fact that we will have that money for a 
considerable period of time. We set up an asset, and that gets amortized over the length of 
time we have that asset. 
That number, which I think has gotten as high as 3 billion over the years, since we haven’t done 
any of those — any big contracts recently, is down around 2 billion. 
There’s nothing magic about that. It means that we’re going to amortize that 2 billion over the 
lifetime of the use of the funds, and we think we’ll make money, net, during that time. 
But we misguessed on one a couple years ago and took a $100 million charge, for example, in 
the first quarter of — I think it was the year before last. 
The other question was about NetJets, wasn’t it, Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And I didn’t get it all. I love the Australian accent of our gecko, but I didn’t 
pick up the exact nuances of what you asked. 
But my guess is you asked about the earnings and operation of NetJets. 
And NetJets has grown rapidly, and so far, our expenses have grown faster than our revenue. 
We’ve got the top service in the world. We’ve got, really, the only worldwide service. We have 
a very strong position, particularly in larger airplanes. 
But I’d have to tell you that I did not anticipate — I thought we would have economies of scale, 
to some degree, and so far you can almost argue that we’ve had diseconomies of scale. 
And our expenses, particularly last year, you know, basically got out of hand. And there are 
various reasons I could give you for that. All I can tell you is, it’s being addressed. 
Rich Santulli, who runs that operation, you could not have a better operator. He loves NetJets. 
He works at it 16 hours a day. He’s — there’s nobody in the world I would have run that except 
for Rich. 
I think it’s an important service. It’s tough to make money with airplanes. They’re capital-
intensive. We’ve had fuel do what it has, although that’s a pass-through to people, but it still 
affects the business. 
And I would — I had expected we would be profitable last year, and as I put in the annual 
report, I was dead wrong. 
I think we will be profitable before long, but you should take my prediction there with — 
probably with — a certain amount of skepticism until it actually happens because I, like I say, 
I’ve been wrong. 
We’ve got a good business in that almost anybody looking for a large plane on a fractional jet 
program comes to us. We are able to get full price for our service. But there were a variety of 
inefficiencies last year which added up to a lot of dollars. 
And you know, you’re entitled to hold me accountable for the fact that we paid a lot of money 
for the business many years ago, and we haven’t earned any money since. 
And we’ve got a much bigger business now, probably five times or so the size of the business 
we bought. That may be some solace to — I looked at Raytheon’s figures the other day. They 
lost a lot of money, and they have the second largest operation. 
They sell their — they sell airplanes too, so they may not feel it the way I do. 
But if I had to bet one way or the other, I would bet we will be making money before long, but 
I’ve lost that bet in the past. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. The product integrity is so extreme between flight safety and NetJets. 
The pilots are subjected to real oxygen withdrawal in the course of the safety training so they 
will recognize the subtle sensation that you get, and not everybody does that. It’s an expensive, 
difficult thing to do. 
In place after place after place, that system is very obsessive about product integrity, and it’s 
my guess that that obsession, in due course, will be rewarded. 
25. Why Buffett bought, and sold, silver 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’ll go to Number 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Dear Warren and Charlie, I’m Oliver Couchet (PH) from Frankfurt in 
Germany. 
Here’s a question to the Silver King: Some commodity investors give you as a reference as one 
of the largest owner of physical silver. Could you please clarify what kind of exposure you or 
Berkshire currently have in silver? 
And, further, could you please help us to understand how you determine the value of a 
noninterest-bearing precious metal? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do you have any silver on you, Charlie? We had a lot of silver at one time, 
but we don’t have it now. 
The original decision — my decision — was that the production of silver and the reclamation of 
silver — I don’t remember the numbers exactly now — but they were running, perhaps, 100 
million ounces or thereabouts, less than the consumption. 
And, now, a lot of consumption has gone down in photography, but that’s where the 
reclamation was, too, so that those tended more to balance each other out. 
I haven’t looked at the figures for the last year or so, but silver was out of balance. 
Now, on the other hand, there were enormous quantities of silver aboveground, and there 
were huge quantities of silver that could possibly be removed from other uses, perhaps, you 
know, in jewelry and all kinds of things, that could conceivably add to supply as they did in the 
early 1980s when the Hunt Brothers thing took place. 
But, overall, silver was being produced and reclaimed at a lesser rate than it was being 
consumed. 
And added to that was the fact that there are relatively few pure silver mines. Silver is largely 
produced as a by-product of copper and lead and zinc, and so that it was not easy to bring on 
added production. 
So, all of that added up to the fact that I thought that silver would get tight at some point. 
And, as I said, I was very — I was early in that conclusion, and I was early in selling. 
So we have no silver now, and we did not make much money on it. 
And you’re right that it doesn’t earn anything. So you sit with it. It’s not like sitting with a stock 
where, in most cases, earnings are piling up for you. 
You have to hope that it — you have to hope that a commodity moves in price, because it is not 
producing anything as it sits there looking at you. And that’s one of the drawbacks of 
commodities. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We didn’t get where we are by owning noninterest-bearing commodities. I 
don’t think it’s a big issue around here. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We actually owned oil at one time too, didn’t we? But we didn’t make much 
money on it. We made a little money. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. You made quite a bit out of oil. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But, you know, it’s a good habit to trumpet your failures and be quiet about 
your successes. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We have more to trumpet than we have to be quiet about. (Laughter) 
26. “We don’t play big trends” 
WARREN BUFFETT: How about number 4? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Bill Gurn (PH). I’ve traveled from the United 
Kingdom. 
And I would like to ask if you think it’s a good investment strategy to invest in regions of high 
resources per capita? 
In particular, I should like to ask if you think that the analysis per capita should lead to higher 
growth for businesses in that region, plus the bonus of a relative exchange rate growth? Thank 
you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’m not sure about the per capita part, Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: My understanding is he was talking about investing in a region with high 
resources per capita. I think he means natural resources. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Are you thinking of places like Canada or something of the sort where 
the — 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I can clarify. Yes, high natural resources, but also good infrastructure. 
Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And whether there would be relative currency strength in those as well and 
— 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. Whether it’s a good area for us to be operating in. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that would be a little macro for us. We really just zero in on, you 
know, whether people will keep eating candy and whether we can charge a little more for it 
next year. 
We don’t play big trends. You know, we don’t think about demographic trends or anything of 
the sort. We think about our own age as getting older. 
But other — big trends, they just don’t mean that much. There’s too much money to be made 
from year to year to think about things that take decades to manifest themselves. 
So I can’t recall of a decision we’ve ever made on a purchase of a business or a stock or a junk 
bond or a currency or anything else based on a macro. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Not only that, we’ve recently failed to profit much from one of the biggest 
commodity booms in history. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And we’ll probably continue to fail in the same way. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: But we’ll search for new ways to fail. I mean, we’re not trying to limit 
ourselves. (Laughter) 
It’s probably true, incidentally, in a country like Canada, where you’ve got, probably, millions of 
barrels of oil of — millions of barrels a day — of oil production coming on and where there’s, 
you know, relatively few people and where there’s already a surplus. 
When they’re running a significant current account surplus, that — you know, it’s not strange 
that their currency should be strong relative to a country like ours where we’re running a huge 
current account deficit and we don’t have that same natural — the gain in natural exports 
coming on that they do. 
But that — there’s so many more important factors that are going to hit us immediately that 
that’s what we really think about day-to-day. 
27. Nuclear threat is “ultimate problem of mankind” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 5? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Glen Strong (PH). I’m from Canton, Ohio. 
I’m an optimistic person, and I’m sure it would be more enjoyable to discuss the Chicago Cubs’ 
march to the World Series. 
WARREN BUFFETT: You are optimistic. (Laughter) 
But everybody has a bad century now and then, as somebody said about the Cubs. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: However — (Laughter) — I have an information deficit on a certain topic 
that I hope you can fix. Please gaze into your crystal ball. 
As an investor, I want to know how to address the risk of nuclear terrorism in the United States. 
Consider a scenario where terrorists have detonated a nuclear device in a major U.S. city. I 
know there would be a terrible cost in human lives. 
Gentlemen, what would happen to our economy? How would it respond? How resilient would 
it be? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it would certainly depend on the extent of it. 
But, if you’re asking how to profit from that, there’s probably some dealer that will sell you 
mortality derivatives. But I’m not sure that’s what we would be thinking about then. 
No. I agree with you. I couldn’t agree with you more about that being the ultimate problem of 
mankind, not necessarily a terrorist-type usage, but a state-sponsored usage of weapons of 
mass destruction. 
And it will happen someday. The extent to which it will happen, where it will happen, who 
knows. But we’ve always had evil people. We’ve always had people who wish evil on others. 
And, you know, thousands of years ago, if you were psychotic or a religious fanatic or a 
malcontent and you wished evil on your neighbor, you picked up a rock and threw it at them, 
and that was about the damage you could do. But we went on to bows and arrows and cannons 
and a few things. 
But since 1945, it’s — the potential for inflicting enormous harm on incredible numbers of 
people has increased, you know, at a geometric pace. 
So it is the problem of mankind. It may happen here. It may happen someplace else. 
People say it’s a — sometimes they say, “Well, you know, if we’d solve poverty, we’d solve 
this.” Well, I will just remind you that nuclear weapons have only been used twice, and those 
were by the richest country in the world, the United States, in 1945. 
So, people will justify their use under some circumstances, if they feel threatened. They will 
justify them for religious reasons. They will do all kinds of crazy things. 
And the — what holds it in check is the degree to which the lack of knowledge of how to do it is 
controlled, and the degree to which the materials are controlled, and which the deliverability is 
circumscribed. 
And we’re losing ground on all of those fronts. The knowledge is more widespread. The 
possibility of getting your hands on materials — you know, the Dr. Khans [Pakistani nuclear 
scientist] of the world and so on, has increased. 
And it will be a — it’s a real problem, but we won’t be thinking about what Berkshire did that 
day in the stock market. 
And I don’t know how money attacks that. I mean, I’ve always saw that as the top priority, I 
think should be the top priority for philanthropy, in my particular case. 
But it’s a difficult — it’s a very difficult — it’s a worst-case problem. You know, you have 6 
billion people in the world, and you have a certain percentage of them who are, one way or 
another, a little crazy, or very crazy, and some of whom in that craziness would manifest itself 
by trying to do great harm to a lot of people. 
And it’s — only one of them has to succeed. 
I don’t know how many we’ve intercepted over the years. I’m sure we’ve intercepted a lot of 
incipient ones. 
But it is a worst-case problem, and one will succeed at some point. And it may be state-
sponsored; it may be terrorists. 
But, you know, Berkshire is better set to survive than anybody else, but it won’t make much 
difference. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that the chances we’ll have another 60 or 70 years with no 
nuclear devices used on purpose is pretty close to zero. 
So, I think you’re right to worry about it, but I don’t, myself, think there’s much that any of us 
can do about it, except be as sensible as we can and take the consequences as they come. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The only thing you can do about it — but you only have one vote — is to 
elect leaders who are terribly conscious of the product — problem — and who devote a 
significant part, you know, of their thought and energy into minimizing it. 
You can’t eliminate it. You know, the genie is out of the bottle. And you would like to have the 
leading — the leaders — of the major countries of the world regarding it as their primary — as 
a primary — focus. 
Actually, in the 2004 campaign, I think that both candidates said it was the major problem of 
our time. But, you know, they probably suffer from the same feeling that I do, that it’s very 
hard to address. 
28. A Berkshire stock buyback won’t be a secret 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 6? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger. My name is William Schooler (PH), and I’m 
a shareholder visiting from Spicewood, Texas. 
I would like to thank you both for being so generous to the public with your ideas. 
Last year, I read “Poor Charlie’s Almanack” and came across a passage on share repurchases. 
It reads, quote: “When Berkshire has gotten cheap, we’ve found other even cheaper stocks to 
buy. I’d always prefer this. It’s no fun to have the company so lacking in repute that we can 
make money for some shareholders by buying out others,” end quote. 
Last year, you bought stock in some great businesses trading at fair prices, such as Walmart and 
Budweiser, but did not attempt to buy our own shares. 
Would shareholders be correct to infer from this decision that you both felt Walmart and 
Budweiser were trading at a deeper discount to their intrinsic values than Berkshire was? 
And would it be possible to buy as much Berkshire in the open market as you did Walmart 
without running up the share price? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Most of the time, we would not be able to buy an amount that would be 
material, in terms of increasing the value of the remaining Berkshire shares. But that doesn’t 
mean it would never happen. 
But it — if you look at the trading volume on Berkshire — and, [CFO] Marc [Hamburg], you 
might put that up, if we can, in a second — we probably have less opportunity than most 
companies if our stock is selling — should be selling — below intrinsic value to have anything 
meaningful happen. 
We would also have — if we regarded some other company as worth X, a good business, and 
we could buy it at 90 percent of X, we might be doing that now, whereas we wouldn’t have 
done it many years ago. 
But we might require a somewhat greater margin, in terms of buying Berkshire shares, simply 
because our view on that might be less — we probably have more knowledge on it, but we 
might be less objective than on some other things. 
We think that when we buy — if we were to buy in Berkshire shares — and, if you remember, 
four or five years ago I announced we would if the price stayed the same — that the case ought 
to really be compelling, and if it’s compelling, we ought to do it. It was compelling at that time. 
But simply the act of writing about it — you know, a little bit of a Heisenberg principle — the 
act of writing about it, in effect, eliminated the opportunity to do it, which is fine. 
Because we do not — we are not looking to make money off of buying from shareholders at a 
depressed price. 
On the other hand, if the price is sufficiently depressed, we will announce again that we intend 
to do it, and then we’ll see whether we actually get a chance to do it. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. The whole climate in the country is different now. 
It used to be that almost every company that bought in shares was buying them in at an 
obvious bargain price. Now I think a lot of share buying is designed to, sort of, prop the stock 
price. 
In other words, it’s not bargain-seeking. It’s more like Sam Insull. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Forty years ago, 30 years ago, it was a very fertile field for making 
money to look at companies that were aggressively buying in their shares, the most extreme 
case probably being Teledyne. 
But those people were buying overwhelmingly — Gurdon Wattles was doing it at the 
companies he controlled — those people were motivated simply by the fact they wanted to buy 
the stock below what it was really worth and — significantly below — and you could make 
money with that group, and we did a little of that at the time. 
I would say in recent years, that motivation has been swamped by people who either think it’s 
fashionable to buy in shares, or by people who really like the idea of trying to prop their stock 
up somewhat. 
And the SEC has certain rules, in terms of the way you conduct your repurchases to prevent 
daily, sort of, propping up. 
But I think there’s a lot of motivation that our stock has got to be cheaper than other people’s 
stock, and we’ve got a wonderful company, and we’re just going to buy the stock come hell or 
high water, and that is not the way we would go about repurchasing shares. 
We’ve got — well, we had up there, I think — some figures that showed the turnover of 
Berkshire shares compared — in a year — compared with a few others I picked out. 
I think Berkshire has the lowest turnover, by some margin, of any major company in the United 
States. 
And I put Walmart up there because the Walton family owns about the same — in fact, they 
own more — of Walmart than I do of Berkshire. 
So, this is not a function of simply the fact that we’ve got concentrated holdings with the 
Buffett family. 
This is a reflection of the fact that we’ve got a really unusual shareholder body in that they 
think of themselves as owners and not as people who are moving around with little pieces of 
paper every week or month. 
We have the most — in my view — we have the most what I would call honest-to-God 
ownership attitude among our 400,000 or so shareholders of any company — of any big traded 
company — in the United States. 
People buy Berkshire to own it, and hold it, and that’s reflected in our turnover. That does 
mean if, for some reason, the stock gets cheap — real cheap — that we would not be able to 
buy a lot of stock in. 
But we don’t want — we are not looking to buy out our partners at a discount. If it sells there 
and we tell them we’re going to buy it, we’ll buy it. But that’s not a way that we’re trying to 
make money. 
Charlie, any more? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. I’ve said my piece. 
29. Advice to young investment professionals 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 7? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is David Saber (PH), shareholder from 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Looking for some advice you might give the young professionals here. 
I could be classified as one of those helpers you describe in your annual report. In fact, most of 
my friends are helpers, and some could be classified as super helpers. 
Most would love to step out and explore some of their more innovative ideas, innovative 
business models, strategies, and things of that nature. 
But the risk of giving up a significant salary, health insurance, flights, other ridiculous corporate 
perks some of us young professionals earn. 
What advice would you have for us in pursuing those dreams? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, what do you think? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, there’s certainly a lot more helpers in the economy than there used to 
be, and the ones that come here tend to be the very best of the helper class. 
So, I don’t think you should judge the helper class by those you meet here. We get the best of 
them. 
And as to what the young helpers ought to do so that they’ll eventually be like Warren Buffett, I 
would say the best thing you can do is reduce your expectations. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think I’ve heard that before. 
Well, you know, as I wrote about — and I — trying to tweak the system a little bit — but it is an 
interesting business in that the activities of the professionals are self-neutralizing. 
And if you’re going to — if your wife is going to have a baby — you’re going to be better off if 
you call an obstetrician, probably, than if you do it yourself. You know, and if your plumbing 
pipes are clogged or something, you’re probably better off calling a plumber. 
Most professions have value added to them above what the laymen can accomplish 
themselves. In aggregate, the investment profession does not do that. 
So you have a huge group of people making — I put the estimate as $140 billion a year — that, 
in aggregate, are, and can, only accomplish what somebody can do, you know, in ten minutes a 
year by themselves. 
And it’s hard to think of another business like that, Charlie. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I can’t think of any. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. 
But it’s become a bigger and bigger business. 
And, as I’ve pointed out in the report, the main thing that’s been learned is that the more you 
charge, at least temporarily, the more money you bring in, that people have this idea that price 
equals value. 
It’s useful to get into a business like that. 
Sometimes, if I’m talking to the people at a business school and I ask them what the — what a 
great — to name me a great business — and, of course, one of the great businesses is a 
business school because, basically, the more you charge, the more your prestige is, to some 
extent. 
And people think that a business school that charges 50,000 a year tuition is going to be better 
than one that charges 10,000 a year of tuition. 
So there’s some of that that — well, there’s a lot of that that’s gotten into the investment field 
recently, and you now have large — certain large — portions of investment management that 
are charging fees that, in aggregate, cannot work out for investors. 
Now, obviously some do, you know. But you cannot be paying people 2 percent and 20 percent 
where they get up it in the good years, and they fold their partnerships and start another one if 
they have a bad year and that sort of thing. 
You can’t have that coming out of an economy that’s only going to produce, we’ll say, you 
know, 7 percent or something like that a year for investors, and have people net better off. It 
isn’t going to work. 
And then the question that you will have is, “How do I pick out the few exceptions?” And 
everyone that calls upon you to sell you this will tell you that they are an exception. 
And, I am willing to bet a significant sum of money, we’ll put it up, to anybody who wants to 
name ten partnerships that are $500 million or more of management and pit those, after fees, 
against the S&P over a ten-year period. 
It — you know, it gets away from the survivorship bias and all that kind of a thing. And it isn’t 
going to happen. 
But a few will do well. They’re bound to do well. 
And, actually, I think I do know how to pick a few that will do well. I mean, I did it in the past. 
When I wound up my own partnership in 1969, I told people to go to either Bill Ruane or Sandy 
Gottesman, and that would have been a very good decision, whichever place they went. 
So, if you know enough about the person, know enough how they’ve done it in the past, know 
enough about their personality, honesty, and a whole bunch of things, I think that occasionally 
you can make a very intelligent choice in picking an investment manager. 
But I don’t think you can do it if you’re sitting running a pension fund in some state and you 
have 50 people calling on you. 
You’re going to go with the ones that are the best salespeople and not the ones that are the 
best investors. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. On that state pension fund investment subject, I think it ought to be a 
crime to entertain, in any way, a state pension fund official, and I think it ought to be a crime, if 
you are a state pension fund official, to accept the entertainment. 
It’s not a pretty scene, a lot of investment management, in America now. And, human nature 
being what it is and the amounts of money being what they are, I don’t think much is going to 
be improved. 
30. Break for lunch 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we wanted to leave you in a good mood for lunch. So — (laughter) — 
we will break now, and we’ll come back in about 45 minutes or so. 
And those of you who are in the other rooms, by then the crowd thins, for some explainable 
reason, and you can all join us here in the main room. And we’ll be back in about 45 minutes. 
 
 
