“The closing price of Berkshire on 12/31/2003 was 84,250. 
“And since Berkshire closed on 12/31/2008 at 96,600, and it’s been lower than that since, and is 
now around that now, it would seem that the market value has not increased for each $1 
retained. 
“Assuming my analysis is correct, it raises the question of whether or not Berkshire will pay a 
dividend in the coming year or not.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we’ll now have a short quiz on that program — (laughter) — on the 
question. 
The earnings, incidentally, of the 5-year period would include gains from things that were listed 
in unrealized appreciation at the end of the period. 
In other words, some of those were actually built into the asset value at the time, but then 
become realized. 
But the truth is if you take all of the money we earned in the five years, and the stocks, bonds, 
businesses purchased, and you sold them for cash on December 31st, 2008, we would not have 
— we would’ve had a loss on that, I mean, under the conditions that existed on December 31st, 
2008. 
I think that’s probably true of almost all capital programs that were (inaudible) — if you really 
measured it by what you could’ve sold, the businesses we bought — we love those businesses. 
But there was no market to speak of for many businesses at that time. And security values were 
down significantly. 
So I would say that he’s absolutely right, that measured on the value on December 31st, 2008, 
that the reinvested earnings had not produced a dollar market value at that particular market 
point. 
Now, I would say this, that we also say we measure our business performance against the S&P. 
And we use book value as a conservative proxy for intrinsic business value. 
We think intrinsic business value is higher, but we use that as a proxy. And we’ve done that 
consistently throughout the history of Berkshire. 
And during that 5-year period — or during any — we’ve never had a 5-year period when we’ve 
under-performed the S&P, in terms of the — what I would call the intrinsic value measure of 
Berkshire. 
And, as I said a few years ago, it’s — as we get larger, it’s much harder to do that, and we’ll 
settle for a couple of points better. 
But so far, that test has been made — been met. And it’s been met while we reinvested all 
earnings. 
So I think that we still have got the burden of — we still should have to prove by the fact that 
Berkshire will sell above the earnings we’ve retained. Berkshire sells above it — every dollar 
that’s been retained at Berkshire translates even today into more than a dollar of market value. 
But I would certainly say that if you took the five years and just sold all the things we bought 
during that period at that price, that there would be a loss. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I don’t get too excited about these oddball things that happen once 
every 50 years. 
If you’re reasonably prepared for them and you’re dented a little on the bottom tick, and other 
people are suffering a lot more, and unusual opportunities are coming to you that you don’t see 
under other conditions, I don’t think we deserve any salt tears. 
20. Wells Fargo’s stock price plunge shouldn’t spark selling 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Take Wells Fargo. I think Wells Fargo’s going to come out of this mess way 
stronger. The fact that the stock at the bottom tick scared a lot of people, I think will prove to 
be a very temporary phenomenon. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Wells Fargo got down below — actually, ticked below $9 a share at a 
time when spreads on business were never better, when depositing flows were never better, 
when their advantage in relation of costs of funds versus other large banks had never been 
better. 
But you know, in a market that was terrified, it — literally, I had a class meeting that day, and it 
was the only time any of those classes have ever got me to name a stock. But they actually 
pushed me. 
And somebody there with a BlackBerry, or whatever those instruments are that they carry 
around these days, checked the price and it was below $9. And I said, if I had to put all my net 
worth in one stock, that would’ve been the stock. 
The — their business is — you know, the business model is fabulous. 
And it, you know, when would you get a chance to buy something like Wachovia, which had the 
fourth largest deposit base in the United States, and bring that in? And then start getting the 
spread on assets versus liabilities that Wells gets and build the relationships they have. It’s a 
great business opportunity. 
Wells Fargo will be better off — unless they have to issue a lot of shares, which they shouldn’t 
— Wells Fargo will be a lot better off a couple of years from now, than if none of this had 
happened. 
And I think that’s true of some of other businesses as well. But you — you know, you have to be 
prepared. You can’t let somebody else get you in a position where you have to sell out your 
position. 
Leverage is what causes people trouble in this world. So you don’t — you never want to be in a 
position where somebody can pull the rug out from under you. And you also never want to be 
emotionally in a position where you pull the rug out from under yourself. 
I mean, you don’t want to have other people force you to sell and you don’t want to let your 
own fears or emotions to cause you to sell at the wrong time. 
I mean, why anybody sells Wells Fargo at $9 a share when they owned it at $25 and the 
business is better off, is one of the strange things about the way markets behave. But people do 
it. And they get very affected by looking at prices. 
If they own a farm like I do, you know, 30 miles from here, they don’t get a price on it every 
day. You know, they — 
I bought that farm 25 years ago. And you look to the production of corn. You look to the 
production of soy beans and prices and cost of fertilizer and a few things. And you look to the 
asset itself to determine whether you made an intelligent investment. You have your 
expectations about what the asset will produce. 
But people in stocks tend to look at the price. So they let the price tell them how they should 
feel or — that’s kind of crazy in our view. 
We think you should look at the business just like you’d look at the apartment house that you 
bought or the farm you want. They let the fact that a quote is available every day turn into a 
liability rather than an asset. 
And all I would say there is you better go back and read chapter 8 of “The Intelligent Investor,” 
where it tells you how to think about the market. And it will do you more good than learning 
what modern portfolio theory is all about. 
21. Big stimulus spending bound to have some “slop” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, number 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Jim Powers (PH). I’m from West Newton, Massachusetts. My 
question has to do with this stimulus bill by the federal government. 
I’ve read that only 8 percent of the money is intended to go to infrastructure. When you invest 
money, you normally look at the asset you’re getting for the money. 
With the country going into so much debt, don’t you think it would be better if a great 
percentage of the money invested by the federal government go to solid assets, as it did during 
the Great Depression with the Tennessee Valley Authority, Hoover Dam, other facilities, that 
are still making money today, and paying back the original investment by the government many 
times over, while putting numerous people to work? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Let me answer that one. Yes. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I would certainly agree. I mean the ’30s — a lot of really wonderful things 
were done with the money that was used to then to stimulate the economy. And that should be 
the goal and a model. 
I can’t evaluate perfectly what the current stimulus bill will do. I know that I — I did get a notice 
the other day from the Social Security Administration telling me I’m getting $250 more. That 
ought to last me 6 or 7 months. (Laughter) 
Charlie will make his last longer, I’m sure. (Laughter) 
But you know, that’s the stimulus that the Buffett household has received at the present time. 
Obviously, you want to use the money as intelligently as possible. 
Obviously, also, anytime the federal government does anything on a massive scale — any time 
any big organization, a church or a business or anything, you know, throws all kinds of 
resources at something, usually there’s a fair amount of slop. 
I think that the intent — but by the time it gets through Congress and everything, I can’t 
guarantee how the result comes out — but I think the intent is to get the money into action 
quickly and to end up having it utilized in intelligent ways. 
But if the day after Pearl Harbor happened, you know, if you’d attached 5 or 6 thousand 
earmarks to the declaration of war, you know, it would not have been a pretty sight. 
I mean, it — we have a system now where — that doesn’t seem to be perfectly effective, I 
would say, in detaching the interests of particular legislators away from the common goal. 
I mean, I get distressed when I look at what gets attached to some of these bills. And that 
certainly was a case in point. So I’ll go along with Charlie on the answer. 
But I think the intent of the administration is the right thing. When the American public pulls 
back like they have, government does need to step in. 
It will have consequences. We are doing things on a scale — we’re doing the conventional 
things, but we’re doing them in unconventional amounts. 
And we will see consequences from what we are doing now. I think we should be doing it. But I 
don’t think we should think it’s a free ride. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, we have one big no-brainer on the list of infrastructure investments 
that can be made. And that is a hugely improved nationwide electricity grid. The chances that 
that won’t help us are zero. 
And that, when it happens, will enormously benefit Berkshire’s utility subsidiary. But that isn’t 
the reason I’m raising it. I would be making this argument if we didn’t have a utilities subsidiary. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We might make it a little more strongly if we had the utilities subsidiary, 
however. (Laughter) 
22. Hard to compete with government-guaranteed debt 
WARREN BUFFETT: Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Rita Addison (PH), who says, “How does Berkshire’s 
strong balance sheet and credit rating help take advantage of buying opportunities when even 
weak financial companies can now borrow more cheaply than Berkshire by using U.S. 
government guarantees of their debt?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well, as I pointed out in the annual report, we are at a significant 
disadvantage in any financing-type business where we are competing against people who are 
getting their funding and their financing with a government guarantee. 
Our raw material costs us a lot more money. And that’s particularly applicable at Clayton where 
we have 10- or $11 billion of, really, mortgage paper on mostly manufactured homes. 
And it’s exceptionally good quality portfolio. Kevin Clayton and the people at Clayton Homes 
have done a great job in terms of lending responsibly. Our borrowers have behaved very well. 
But the raw material to fund that portfolio — money — costs us a whole lot more than some 
bank that’s in trouble. 
And that’s a real problem for us. And it’s forcing us to try to come up with various other sources 
of funding that portfolio where, one way or another, we get people with government 
guarantees involved in the program. 
That’s just a fact of life with us now. There are the blessed who have government guarantees. 
And there’re the ones that aren’t. 
And of course, you see that dramatically, in the case of some companies that have a 
government guarantee for part of their money and then sell other money — and then sell other 
bonds — that aren’t guaranteed. 
I mean, just the other day, as I remember, I may be wrong on this, but I think Goldman Sachs 
sold something with a 400 basis point spread that wasn’t guaranteed. Whereas their 
guaranteed paper would be hundreds of basis points underneath that. 
General Electric sold something earlier this year that wasn’t guaranteed. And the spread 
between the guaranteed and the un-guaranteed was huge. 
We don’t have anything guaranteed to sell, so we are not in that favored class in any way. And 
we can’t become a bank holding company. So as long as the situation goes on, we have to 
figure out ways that we adjust. 
We only really use borrowed money — we use it in our utility business. But other utilities are 
not in this favored class. I mean, the utility industry generally. 
So our utility borrows money quite well, compared to most utilities. MidAmerican’s credit is 
regarded as very good. 
And generally speaking, we’ve raised our money at a lower rate, which benefits our customers 
in the utility business. 
We don’t use much money in the rest of our businesses, except for the financing at Clayton. 
And we won’t use much money. 
So we get our money by float, basically. And our float is — it was $58 billion. I mentioned a little 
while ago, that Wells Fargo raises its money in the first quarter at, I think, 1.12 percent — 112 
basis points — which is very cheap. 
But our money’s cheaper. We can’t get as much of it as Wells does. But we do have 58 billion — 
in fact, we have more now — that you would think will cost us less than zero over time, 
although there will be given periods when we have a cost to it. 
But we don’t have an answer for going head-to-head against a government-sponsored business 
that gets — can raise money with a government guarantee. We do not have a way of going 
head-to-head with them at any business, no matter how prudently we conduct our operations. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, of course we’re at a funding disadvantage. But on the other hand, we 
aren’t regulated like a bank or a bank holding company. 
I think we’d be pretty ungrateful if we took this one disadvantage that has come to us and 
obsessed on it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I get those kind of lectures all the time. (Laughter) 
23. Graham would probably agree with us on derivatives 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, number 8. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Mr. Buffett. Hi, Mr. Munger. My name is Mary Kimble (PH) from New 
York City. 
In getting back to basics, what do you think Ben Graham would have said about derivatives? 
WARREN BUFFETT: He would not have liked them. I think he probably would’ve said pretty 
much what I said back in 2002, that they pose a real risk to the system. 
They cause leverage to run wild. They cause counterparties to sign up for things that may be 
difficult to achieve under certain circumstances. That they place an already fragile economic 
system — added strains on them — which can pop up in unpredictable ways. 
But he would probably also say if he saw some that were mispriced, he would act accordingly. 
But he wouldn’t get himself in a position where the problems of the people who didn’t act 
prudently could cause him any problems. And I think that probably would be the answer. 
The — one of the — one basic problem on derivatives — well, there are several problems. 
I mean, back in — after 1929, Congress met — there was a Pecora committee and so on— and 
they decided that it was very dangerous to let people borrow a lot of money against securities 
and that it contributed to the Great Depression. 
And therefore, they said the Federal Reserve should regulate how much people could borrow 
against securities. And it was important for society. 
And the Federal Reserve started requiring margin — they had margin requirements. Those 
requirements still exist. You are not supposed to be able to borrow more than 50 percent 
against your securities. 
Actually, during one period, they went to where they didn’t — the Federal Reserve allowed no 
borrowing whatsoever. They went to a hundred percent margin. 
But derivatives came along and just turned that into a — made those rules a laughingstock. You 
have what they call “total return swaps,” which means you can borrow a hundred percent 
against what you own. That goes way beyond anything that existed in 1929. 
So derivatives became a way around regulation of leverage in markets, which like I say, 
Congress felt was important and the Federal Reserve still has a responsibility for enforcing. 
Derivatives also meant that settlement dates got pushed out. One of the problems in securities 
markets comes about when you have a trade today, if you had — didn’t have to settle it for a 
year, you’d find it very hard sometimes to find the person on the other side. 
And derivatives allow these very long settlement periods. Whereas security markets demand 
them in three days. There’s a reason they demand them in three days. 
As you extend out periods, you get more and more defaults. So they’re a danger — they are a 
danger to the system. There’s no question about that. 
We have a book in The Bookworm called “The Great Crash” by Galbraith. It’s one of the great 
books. You really ought to buy it. It tells the story of the ’29 and it gets into margin 
requirements, so… 
Ben Graham would not like a system that used derivatives heavily. But he would — I don’t think 
he would have been above — if he saw something that looked way out of line and he knew he 
could handle it himself — I think he would have been quite willing to buy or sell one that was 
mispriced. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think there’s been a deeper problem in the derivative business. The 
derivative dealer takes two advantages of the customer. 
One, there’s croupier-style mathematical advantage equivalent to the house advantage in Las 
Vegas. 
And two, the derivative dealer is playing in the same game with his own clients, with the 
advantage of being a better player. So — 
WARREN BUFFETT: And having knowledge of what they’re doing. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — and having knowledge of what the clients are doing. 
This is basically a dirty business. And you’re really selling things to your clients who trust you, 
that are bad for the clients. 
We don’t need more of this kind of thing in America. We need less. (Applause) 
24. Bailouts shouldn’t hurt senior debt holders 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Well, this question came in this morning. And it’s a timely, 
philosophical one, given the results of the stress test that will coming out next week. And it 
relates to your stakes in Wells, U.S. Bancorp and Goldman Sachs. And the question is the 
following: 
“The government’s proposed restructuring plans for Chrysler and GM require creditors, as well 
as common shareholders, to bear losses. 
“Yet, with the banks, the government’s actions, to date, have not required concessions from 
holders of preferred stock and debt. The government has merely required the dilution of 
common stock holders. 
“To what extent should holders of preferred stock and debt share losses in the bank rescue 
plans or in the resolution of a major bank holding company? And do you expect to be diluted in 
any of your holdings?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I would say this. That’s very institution specific. With Freddy and 
Fannie, the preferred was gone. I mean, there was no equity. And the preferred got — in effect, 
it’s gotten wiped out along with the common stock. 
With U.S. Bancorp or Wells, those are companies making lots of money. There’s lots of equity 
there. So there’s no reason to go up to senior securities and say that they should give up 
anything when there’s lots of common equity underneath. 
It’d be like if I have a mortgage on my house and it’s 70 percent against its current value, 
saying, just because other people are having trouble in the neighborhood paying their 
mortgages because they got much higher mortgage or something, your saying my mortgage 
holder with 70 percent mortgage, that he should give up something and increase my equity 
even further. 
There’s lots of equity there, which there is at Goldman, U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo. There’s lots of 
equity, lots of earning power. There’s really no reason for senior debt to give up anything. 
You know, you could make an argument at Freddy and Fannie, about the subordinated debt, 
whether they should’ve suffered as well as the preferred stock and the common. But I don’t see 
it as applying to earning institutions with lots of future earning power. 
I would love to buy all of U.S. Bancorp. You know, or I’d love to buy all of Wells if we could do it. 
You know, we’re not allowed to do it because it’d make us a bank holding company. But those 
businesses, there’s no reason for the creditors to suffer. 
Now, you get into Chrysler or something of that sort, you know, there is no — I mean, they’re 
losing money all of time and they do not have a competitive advantage. You know, whether 
they’ve got a sustainable business model under any circumstances is open to question. 
Whether there’s any common equity there is not open to question. You know, there isn’t any 
common equity. Nobody would pay a dollar, you know, if they had to take on Chrysler and all 
its debts. 
Lots of people would pay billions of dollars to take on U.S. Bancorp or Goldman Sachs, you 
know, with all their debt. So those are different situations. I — 
If you get into a situation where the common equity is wiped out, then you get into a question 
of — then you get into the proper allocation of things within the capital structure — who gives 
up so much, and the senior debt may give up something, and so on. 
But I don’t see it as applying at all to businesses that are worth a lot of money, where the 
equity’s worth a lot money. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I have nothing to add. (Laughter) 
25. Ignore original cost when reviewing your portfolio 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, number 9. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett. Sorry, about that. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, my 
name’s Kelly Cardwell from Warrenville, Illinois. 
Guys, if either of you were starting a smaller investment fund today, let’s say in Warrenville, 
Illinois, $26 million fund called Central Square Capital — hypothetically? 
WARREN BUFFETT: What? You’ll get billed for a commercial later on. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: With this smaller asset base, what would you do differently, both in terms 
of the number of positions and frequency of turnover? 
For example, if you owned a portfolio of 10 stocks and five of them doubled in a short time 
period, would it make sense to actively manage the portfolio and take profits in the five that 
had doubled and redeploy the proceeds into your positions, into the ones that had not moved 
higher, where, presumably, more upside exists and the odds are more dramatically stacked in 
your favor? Or would you favor the strategy of sitting on your hands in the name of long-term 
investing? 
WARREN BUFFETT: We would own the half of dozen or so stocks we like best. Their — and it 
wouldn’t have anything to do with what our cost on them was. 
It would only have to do with our evaluation of their price versus value. It doesn’t make any 
difference what the cost is. 
And incidentally, if they went down 50 percent, we would say the same thing. I — you know, 
and using your illustration, I don’t know whether that fund has actually had something that 
went up or went down. 
So, we would — our cost basis, except in rare cases — and we actually have a situation like this 
at Berkshire now, which I may explain a little later. But the cost basis doesn’t have anything to 
do the fund. 
When Charlie and I ran funds, we didn’t worry about whether something was up or down. We 
worried about what it was worth compared to what it was selling for. 
And we tried to have most of our money in a relatively few — very few — positions which we 
thought we knew very well. We do the same thing now. We’d do the same thing a hundred 
years from now. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes, he’s tactfully suggesting that you adopt a different way of thinking. 
(Laughter and applause) 
26. Berkshire’s competitive advantage no longer requires us 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: This question is from Michael Welter (PH) of Portland, Oregon. 
“You’ve often said that two things you look for in an investment are a sustainable competitive 
advantage and a simple, easy to grasp business model. Berkshire’s sustainable competitive 
advantage is arguably you, Warren and Charlie. And that obviously is not sustainable over the 
long term.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: I reject that. Defeatism. (Laughs) 
CAROL LOOMIS: I knew you would. 
“While at this point, Berkshire does not have a simple, easy to grasp business model. So if the 
two of you were outside investors, is it possible that, no matter what combination of intrinsic 
value and price Berkshire offered, you would not invest in it today?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: No, our sustainable competitive advantage is we have a culture and a 
business model, which people are going to find very, very difficult to copy, even semi-copy. 
We have an unusual group of shareholders. We have a business that’s owned by people where 
the turnover on our stock, even allowing for all the double-counting and everything like that, 
may be something like 20 percent a year, when virtually every stock in the S&P 500 turns over a 
hundred percent a year. 
So we have a different shareholder base. We have people that understand their business 
differently. 
And we have a business that can offer, to people who own private businesses, the chance to 
keep running their businesses as they have in the past and get rid of the problems of lawyers 
and bankers and all kinds of things like that. 
And I don’t see any other company in the United States that has the ability to do that now, or 
probably the ability to adopt that model in any big way. 
So I would say we have sort of an ultimate — and it’s not peculiar to me and Charlie. We may 
have helped create it. But it is a deeply embedded culture which any CEOs that follow are going 
to be well-versed in when they come into the job, and dedicated to, and able to continue in the 
future. 
And you can’t — I don’t want to name names about other companies — but you can’t do that 
elsewhere. 
So I think anybody wanting to copy Berkshire is going to have a very hard time. And I think the 
advantages we have are going to be very, very long lasting. And they’re not peculiar to the fact 
that Charlie and are I sitting up here anymore. They may have been, originally. But no longer. 
Our culture, our managers join that culture. Our shareholders join that culture. It gets 
reinforced all the time. They see that it works. 
You know, it’s something that I don’t know how I would copy it, if I were running, you know, 
some other company. 
And it’s meaningful. Because there will be businesses, just as there was with ISCAR awhile back, 
just as the management at GEICO felt back in the mid-’90s in terms of what they wanted to do, 
there will be people that want to join up with us. And they really won’t have a good second 
choice. They’ll be plenty that don’t, too. But that’s OK. 
We just need to have the right ones — some of the right ones — join us. And it can go on a 
long, long time. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. I might state that a little differently. A lot of corporations in America 
are run stupidly from headquarters, as they try and force the divisions to come up with profits 
for every quarter that are better than the profits from the same quarter in the previous year. 
And a lot of terrible decisions and terrible practices creep into those businesses. In the 
Berkshire model, that doesn’t happen. 
So while Warren and Charlie will soon be gone — not too soon in my case, but I’m a little 
worried about Warren (laughter) — the stupidity of management practice in the rest of the 
corporate world will likely remain ample enough to give this company some comparative 
advantage way into the future. (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’ll go to — it’s very important isn’t it, to watch what you eat, as you 
— (laughter) — in terms of preserving longevity. So we watch it for hours up here at a time. 
(Laughs) 
27. We don’t keep every stock, but we do keep every business 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 10. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett, and Mr. Munger. My name is Aznar Midolf (PH). I’m 
from (Inaudible) organization, San Francisco. 
And my question is from one of financial blogs. How do you justify holding stocks forever when 
the fundamentals have permanently changed? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the answer is we don’t. You know, and — if we lose confidence in the 
management, if we lose confidence in the durability of the competitive advantage, if we 
recognize we made a mistake when we went into it — we sell plenty of times. So it’s not 
unheard of. 
On the other hand, if you really get a wonderful business with outstanding management — but 
mostly the wonderful business part of it — when in doubt, keep holding. But it’s no inviolable 
rule. 
Now, among the businesses we own, not just securities we own, we have an attitude, which we 
express in our economic principles, that when we buy a business it’s for keeps. 
And we make only two exceptions: when they promise to start losing money indefinitely or if 
we have major labor problems. But otherwise, we are not going to sell something just ’cause 
we get offered more money for it, even than it’s worth. 
And that’s a peculiarity we have. And we want our partners to know about that. 
We do think it probably helps us in terms of buying businesses over time. It’s also the way we 
want to run our business. 
But with stocks, bonds, we sell them. But we’re more reluctant to sell them than most people. I 
mean, if we made the right decision going on, we like to ride that a very long time. And we’ve 
owned many — we’ve owned some stocks for decades. 
But if the competitive advantage disappears, if we really lose faith in the management, if we 
were wrong in the original analysis — and that happens — we sell. Or if we find something 
more attractive — 
Normally we have plenty of money around. But in September of last year, late September, we 
had committed to put 6.6 million — billion — in Wrigley. We — and then Goldman Sachs 
needed 5 billion, GE needed 3 billion. 
I sold a couple billion dollars’ worth of J&J just because I didn’t like getting our cash level down 
below a certain point, under the circumstances that existed then. 
That not was a negative decision on J&J. It just — it meant that I wanted a couple billion more 
around. And I saw an opportunity to do something that I probably wouldn’t see too much later. 
Whereas, I could always buy J&J back at a later date. But that’s an unusual situation. 
28. We run Berkshire as if we owned all of it 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’d like to go back to one point on the earlier question, too. 
I always — I frequently ask CEOs of companies what they would do differently if they owned 
the whole place themselves. 
You know, when I’m talking to, either companies where we’ve invested in, sometimes other 
companies, friends of mine run them. You know, “What would you do different if this was a 
hundred percent owned by you and your family?” 
And they give me a list of things. There is no list at Berkshire. You know, we basically run this 
place the same way we’d run if we owned a hundred percent of it. 
And that is a difference that — in terms of people joining in with us. They don’t have to adjust 
their lives to a bunch of rules that are kind of self-imposed, in terms of how people think about 
public companies, in terms of earnings, predictions, and all of that sort of thing. 
And there are certain people that would prefer to be associated with an enterprise like that. 
And also —following through on this rule I just explained — know that they’ve made a one 
decision on where that business that they built up over decades and cherish and everything — 
they make one decision on where it’s going to go, and they’re not going to get surprised later 
on. 
They’re not going to get some management consultant come in and say, “You ought to have a 
pure player, Wall Street’s saying, so you ought to spin this off or sell it,” or anything like that. 
And they know we’re not going to leverage it up. So they know they’re really going to get to do 
what they love the most, which is to continue to run their business, not bothered by bankers or 
lawyers or public expectancies or anything of the sort. 
And that is a — like I said earlier, that’s a real advantage. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, in the show business, they say the show has legs if it’s going to last a 
long time. I think Berkshire Hathaway’s system has legs. 
29. Why the annual meeting isn’t webcast 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. With that, we’ll go to Becky. (Laughter) 
BECKY QUICK: This is a question from Humin Timadin (PH) in Seattle, Washington. He’s got a 
two-part question. But he says, “From time to time, you purchase shares of public companies. 
“Presumably, you feel that those shares are a better investment than Berkshire shares at the 
time, since you never buy back Berkshire shares. 
“If Berkshire shareholders can purchase shares in the same companies for the same price as 
you, why shouldn’t they shell — sell their Berkshire shares and buy what you are buying?” 
And secondly, he wants to know why, because he, “like thousands of other shareholders, is 
unable to attend the annual meeting, how come Berkshire does not webcast the meeting? I am 
aware of the irony that I will not hear your answer.” (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, our meeting does get written up, at least it gets written up a lot with 
various blogs and everything else. It gets written up pretty well in its entirety by Outstanding 
Investor Digest. 
And there are others that prepare extensive reports. And they pop up on the internet. So he 
will, in all likelihood, find out the answer. 
We could webcast. I get asked the same question about webcasting the meetings I have with 
students. You know, why not do that? It’s so much easier and everything. 
I think there is something gained by personal contact. I certainly know that when I was studying 
and all of that, I gained a lot by personal contact. 
Even though I’d read Ben Graham’s books, just going and being with him. And I follow that 
practice in teaching. And I think that — 
I like the turnout we get. I like our partners to show up and see the products we sell and all of 
that. This is not something where we’re going to go and hide and hold our meeting, you know, 
in some hamlet, you know, in western Nebraska or something to discourage attendance. 
We’ve got a different attitude. And I think that that — I hope that comes across. And I think 
that if we webcast it, you know, it was something like turning on a television show, I don’t think 
it would be quite the same. 
30. No “quarrel” with copycats 
WARREN BUFFETT: In terms of the first part of the question about buying the securities we buy, 
plenty of people do that. And some of them — but they — incidentally, they’re not buying it 
with free float that’s available from insurance. 
So if they have $58 billion that they can get interest-free, they will be in the same position we 
are in buying those securities. But they are — on the other hand, they have some tax 
advantages we don’t have. So I don’t quarrel with people who do that. 
We have to publicize to some extent what we own. Some things they wouldn’t be able to buy 
because we make direct purchases. 
They wouldn’t be able to buy into the businesses we own. But they might very well do better 
piggybacking us in some way. And they’re certainly free to do it. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, generally, I think it’s quite smart to do what you’re talking about — is 
to identify some investors you regard as very skilled, and carefully examine everything they’re 
buying, and copy what you please. I think you have a very good idea. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I used — when I was 21 years old, I had to mail away to the SEC in 
those days — and you had these crummy copies about a week later and paid a lot per page to 
get them — but I used to get the semi-annual reports of Graham-Newman Corp before I went 
to work there. 
And I would look at every security that was listed there. And I got some of my ideas that way. 
So it’s a — there’s nothing wrong with that. 
31. Your best inflation protection 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Sam Alter (PH). I’m 11 years old and I’m from Westminster, 
New Jersey. 
My question is, how will inflation affect my generation? And how is Berkshire investing to 
prepare for this time? (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that was about inflation, right? How inflation was going to affect him? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. How is inflation —? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, inflation is going to affect you. You know, the — it’s certain we will 
have inflation over time. 
Paul Volcker got very upset the other day and spoke out about three weeks ago, I guess, when 
he read that a majority of the Federal Open Market Committee had sort of targeted 2 percent 
inflation as the number. 
And Volker, who came in when inflation was raging and saw the problems of stopping it when it 
got a momentum of its own, said, “You know, 2 percent sounds great, but in a generation it 
cuts away purchasing power by 50 percent.” 
He was — kind of a long generation, there — but he was right in that once you start thinking 
about a couple percent, you are on something of a slippery slope. 
And we are following policies in this country now to stimulate things, which — stimulate 
business — which are bound to have some inflationary consequences. 
And to the extent that we borrow money from the rest of the world, it would be very human on 
the part of politicians in the future to decide that they would rather pay the rest of the world 
back in dollars that are worth far less than the dollars they borrowed. 
I mean, it’s the classic way of reducing the impact and cost of external debt. And we’re building 
up a lot of external debt. 
I always find it interesting when politicians now talk about using the taxpayer’s money to do 
this and the taxpayer’s money to do that and how the taxpayers are paying the bonuses at AIG. 
We haven’t raised taxes at all in this country. You know, I mean, taxpayers are paying nothing 
beyond what they were paying a couple years ago. 
Matter of fact, the federal revenues this year, which were close to 2.6 trillion a couple years 
ago, you know, maybe more like 2.3 trillion. So we are taking less money from the taxpayers. 
The people who are really paying for the things we’re doing now will probably be the people 
who are buying fixed-dollar investments, much of it from the U.S. government, and who will 
find the purchasing power when they go to redeem those investments to be far less. 
So you can — you might say that the AIG bonus is — probably the Chinese have — are the 
people that are ultimately paying the most in terms of the loss of purchasing power they will 
have with their holdings of government bonds, U.S. government bonds, many years down the 
road. But it sounds better to say the taxpayer than to say the Chinese are paying for it. 
It’s an interesting situation. I read that comment everyday about how the taxpayers are doing 
this and that. And, you know, I haven’t had my taxes raised. You haven’t had your taxes raised. 
They’re giving me $250 bucks back here pretty soon. 
The taxpayers haven’t paid anything so far. And my guess is that the ultimate price of much of 
this will be paid by a shrinkage in the value of — the real value — of fixed-dollar investments 
down the road. 
And that will be the easiest thing to do. And if it’s the easiest thing to do, it’s the most likely 
thing to have happen. 
So you will see plenty of inflation. Now, the best protection against inflation is your own 
earning power. 
If you’re the best teacher, if you’re the best surgeon, if you’re the best lawyer, you know, 
whatever it may be, you will command a given part of other people’s production of goods and 
services no matter what the currency is, whether it’s seashells, or reichsmarks, or dollars. 
So your own earning power is the best, by far. If you’re the best journalist, whatever it may be, 
you will get your share of the national economic pie, regardless of the value of whatever the 
currency may be, as measured against some earlier standard. 
The second best protection is a wonderful business. You know, if you own the Coca-Cola, 
trademark, Company, you will get a given portion of people’s labor 20 years from now and 50 
years from now for your product. 
And it’s doesn’t make any difference what’s happened to the price level, generally. Because 
people will give up three minutes of labor, whatever it may be, to enjoy, you know, 12 ounces, 
you know, of a product they like. 
So those are the — and — those are the great assets, your own earning power first, and then 
the earning power of a wonderful business that does not require heavy capital investment. 
If it requires heavy capital investment, you get killed in inflation. And with those guidelines, I 
would tell you the best thing to do is invest in yourself. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. The young man should become a brain surgeon and invest in Coca-Cola 
instead of government bonds. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: I get paid by the word. He doesn’t. (Laughter) 
32. Newspapers are fading but we’re keeping the Buffalo News 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: OK. This question comes to us from Dennis Wallace (PH) in Waldorf, 
Maryland. We got a lot of these. And I’m selfishly interested in the answer. 
Given the current economic conditions in the newspaper and publishing business, can you 
please provide some of your thoughts on its impact on Berkshire? Given that our investee, the 
Washington Post Company, has had a substantial decline in its stock value, is it still a good use 
of capital? 
And given the, quote, “cheap trading prices of newspapers in the current climate,” would 
Berkshire considering — consider purchasing additional newspapers to add to the Buffalo News 
and Washington Post properties? 
At what price does it become compelling to invest in the newspaper business? Or is there no 
price at which it becomes compelling in today’s environment? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I would say, it isn’t today’s environment. I mean, it’s an evolutionary 
development. 
But — so the current economic environment has accentuated the problems in newspapers. But 
it is not the basic cause. 
Newspapers are, to the American public as a whole — Charlie and I — I read five a day. Charlie 
probably reads five a day. We’ll never give them up. 
But we’ll also be the last guys reading a newspaper while having a landline phone, you know, by 
our side. (Laughter) 
So, you don’t want to judge consumer preferences by what we do. The newspaper — no. The 
answer is, for most newspapers in the United States, we would not buy them at any price. 
They have the possibility, and in certain places, they’ve already hit it, but they have the 
possibility of just going to unending losses. 
And they were absolutely essential to a very high percentage of the American public, you know, 
20, 30, 40 years ago. They were the ultimate business. 
It was a business where only one person won, basically, in almost every town in the country. 
There were 1,700 papers in the United States. And about 50 of those, 20 years ago, existed in a 
city where there were multiple papers. 
So they were a product that had pricing power, that was essential to the customer, essential to 
the advertiser. And they’ve lost that essential nature. 
They were primary 30 years or 40 years ago if you wanted to learn sports scores or stock prices 
or even news about international affairs. 
And then that nature, what Walter Annenberg used to call “essentiality,” I don’t know whether 
it’s in the dictionary or not, but it started eroding. And then the erosion has accelerated 
dramatically. 
And they were only essential to the advertiser as long as they were essential to the reader. And 
you know, nobody liked buying ads in the paper. It was just that they worked. 
And that has — that is changing. It’s changing every day. And I do not see anything on the 
horizon that causes that erosion to end. 
We — you know, at the Buffalo News, Stan Lipsey would greet me 10 years ago. And he would 
say, “Warren, you should — on an economic basis — you should sell this paper.” And I said, “I 
agree 100 percent. But we’re not going to do it.” 
And you know, we could’ve sold the Buffalo News for many hundreds of millions of dollars 
some years back. And we couldn’t sell it, you know, for remotely anything like that now. 
And that’s one of the policies. We have a union that’s been very cooperative — unions, a bunch 
of unions — have been quite cooperative with us in recent months in trying to have an 
economic model that will at least keep us making a little money. 
And as I put in the annual report, in our economic principles, that as long as we don’t think we 
face unending losses or have major union problems, we will stick with the businesses, even 
though it would be a mistake if you were acting as a trustee for, you know, a bunch of crippled 
children or something of the sort. And that’s just our policy at Berkshire. 
The Post has a very good cable business. It has a very good education business. But it does not 
have answers on the newspaper business, as Don Graham wrote in the annual report. Nor does 
anyone else. 
Now, we all keep looking around for somebody that will find the model. But there — I think 
there are about 1,400 daily papers now in the United States, and nobody yet has found the 
model. 
We are as well-positioned in Buffalo, believe it or not, I think, to play out the game as anyone 
else. But whether we find something before the lines get so that we’re inexorably in the red, 
whether the situation gets so we’re inexorably in the red, I don’t know. 
But we will play it out as long as we can. It’s not what they teach you in business school. But it’s 
the way we run Berkshire. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that’s all 100 percent right. And it’s really a national tragedy. 
The — these monopoly daily newspapers have been an important sinew of our civilization. 
And, by and large, they were impregnable from advertiser pressure. And by and large, they 
were desirable editorial influences. And by and large, they kept government more honest than 
it would otherwise be. 
So as they disappear, I think what replaces it will not be as desirable as what we’re losing. But 
this is life. 
33. Expect weak consumer spending for “quite a bit longer” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 12. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. I’m Marc Rabinov, from 
Melbourne Australia. 
I’m wondering if I could ask you how retailing, manufacturing, and service businesses have been 
severely impacted by the recession given the way consumer spending has changed. Is it likely 
the results will still be 20 percent below 2007 levels in three years’ time? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I don’t know about three years’ time. Certainly those areas you named, to 
varying degrees, have been hit very hard. 
Some of the manufacturing would tie in with residential construction. If we hold housing starts 
at 500,000 a year, you know, my guess is that in a couple of years at most, we would get 
something close to equilibrium in housing. Maybe quite a bit sooner. Nobody knows the figures 
with precision. 
But if you keep forming households at a million-3, or something like that, a year, and you create 
500,000 new units and a few of the old ones burn down, and a few — you will reach 
equilibrium at a point that’s not ridiculously far in the future. 
And that will make a big difference in our carpet business, and brick business, and insulation 
business, and paint business, and so on. 
Retailing has been hit very hard. The higher the end of it, generally speaking, the harder it’s 
been hit. 
There’s been a big change in consumer behavior. And I think it will last quite a bit longer. 
I think for years, government was telling people to save. And now that they’re saving, they’re 
unhappy about it. 
But I think that — I think the experience of the last couple years, I don’t think will go away very 
fast. I think it could last quite a long time. 
So I would not think our retailing businesses would do great for a considerable period of time. 
And I would say that in retail real estate, I would think that that would be a tough field to be in 
for quite a period. 
I think the shopping centers will be seeing vacancies that will be hard to fill. I think that the 
retailers will be struggling in many cases. And of course, the supply of real estate doesn’t go 
away. 
So, that could be — the shopping center business, which was selling at, you know, these 
premiere cap rates of 5 percent or even less sometimes. I think that is going to look very silly 
before all of this is done. In fact, it already is looking that way. So I wouldn’t count — I wouldn’t 
— 
The service businesses are generally the better businesses. They require less capital and they 
can be more specialized in the markets they serve, in general. 
But I would not look for any quick rebound in the retail manufacturing service businesses. 
We’ve got a ways to go on that. 
And we’ve got a ways to go on the ones that are construction related. But at least there, you 
can sort of see the math of when it’ll work out. And you can get a lot of information on what’s 
going on in real estate markets. 
South Florida, I think, will be — for example, I think that’s going to be a problem for a long, long 
time. 
I hope it isn’t. But I just think the math of it is pretty devastating, in terms of the number of 
units you have and net household formation down there. You’ve got a lot to wade through. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. 
34. We’ll never buy back Berkshire shares at a “silly” price 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s go to Carol. 
CAROL LOOMIS: I got lots of question sent in to me about the possibility of Berkshire buying its 
own shares. And here’s what one said: 
“You recently described Berkshire’s policy regarding share repurchase as self-defeating, 
because before repurchase, you said, you would write a letter to shareholders explaining why 
we are going to do it. 
“You said the letter would, by necessity, tell investors that the stock price was at a substantial 
discount to intrinsic value, which would cause the stock price to rise. 
“The letter would be, in essence, a buy recommendation, though as a matter of policy, you 
don’t make those. 
“In the past, you have emphatically endorsed share repurchase by other companies and 
criticized managers who would not buy when the price was right. 
“You have said no alternative action can benefit shareholders as surely as repurchases. Your 
previous views suggest little patience for a manager with a self-defeating policy. 
“You’ve said when you have a manager who consistently turns his back on repurchases when 
these are clearly in the interest of owners, he reveals more than he knows of his motivations. 
So — and the market correctly discounts assets lodged with him. 
“Would it not be rational to conclude that the market will appropriately discount Berkshire’s 
share price unless and until you abandon your self-defeating policy and engage in repurchases 
of shares?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, incidentally, the — and this important, actually — the comments I 
made about repurchasing, overwhelmingly, those go back a lot of years when stocks generally 
were — frequently were — cheap in relation to intrinsic value. I did not make that — 
You haven’t seen me writing about that in the last 10 years or so. Because I would say most of 
the repurchasing done in recent years, I’ve thought has been foolish, because people have been 
paying too much. 
And companies got, in many cases — they would never acknowledge this — but they were 
buying because they were basically liked — they were trying to give out a buy recommendation 
when it wasn’t justified. 
In the ’70s and early ’80s, Charlie and I would frequently urge people to repurchase shares 
because it was so much more attractive than other things they could do with their money. 
The only time we felt strongly that Berkshire should repurchase its shares was in roughly 2000, 
whenever it was, that we thought it was demonstrably below intrinsic business value. And we 
wrote we would do it, and it did become self-defeating. 
There’s clearly a point where if we thought it was demonstrably below — conservatively 
estimated — intrinsic business value and we notified the stock holders we were going to do it, 
we would do it. I think again, it would largely be self-defeating. 
I don’t think that situation exists now. I think — I won’t give any buy or sell recommendations. 
But I think it ought to be quite compelling. 
Like I say, I don’t — I think, probably 90 percent of the repurchase activity I’ve seen in the last 
five years, I did not think was serving the cause of the shareholder. 
I thought it was being done because management thought it was the thing to do, and their 
investor relations department told them it was the thing to do, and they were actually buying 
stock at kind of silly prices. 
And that was not the case when Charlie and I looked at Teledyne or the Washington Post or Cap 
Cities Broadcasting doing it many years ago. But I haven’t seen situations like that in recent 
years. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add to that, either. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number — it’s interesting how many companies were buying in their stock 
at twice present prices that aren’t buying it now. I mean, there are lots of those. 
We will never buy in our stock at a silly price. We may make a mistake by not buying it at a 
cheap price. But we’ll never make a mistake, I don’t think, by buying it at a silly price. 
And we think a significant percentage of corporate America has done that in recent years, 
including a few stocks that we’ve owned ourselves. 
35. Crisis made opportunity cost calculations difficult 
WARREN BUFFETT: Number 13. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Jack Benben (PH) from Haworth, New Jersey. First, I’d like to thank you. 
This is — I’ve been to about a dozen meetings. This is probably the best one. 
So thank you very much for the new format. And thank you very much to the journalists who’ve 
really helped out a lot. (Applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, thank you. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: At past meetings, you and Mr. Munger have talked at great length about 
opportunity cost. Excuse me. The past year has presented you with many unusual 
opportunities. 
Can you discuss some of the more important opportunity cost decisions of the past year? And 
were those decisions at all affected by the macroeconomic picture? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, certainly opportunity cost has been much more in the forefront of 
mind in the last 18 months. 
When things are moving very fast, when both prices are moving, and in certain cases, intrinsic 
business value is moving at a pace that’s far greater than we’ve seen for a long time, it means 
that in terms of calibrating A versus B, versus C, it’s tougher. 
It’s more interesting. It’s more challenging. But it’s — and it can be way more profitable, too. 
But it’s a different task then when everything was moving at a more leisurely pace. 
And I described earlier, you know, we face that problem. And it’s a good problem to have. We 
faced that problem in September and October. Because we want to always keep a lot of money 
around. 
We have all kinds of levels — extra levels of safety — that we follow at Berkshire. And we will 
never get so we’re dependent on banks or other people’s money or anything else. We’re just 
not going to run the company that way. 
So we were seeing things happen. I mean, we got a call — we got lots of calls. But, most of 
them, we ignored. But the calls that we got that we ignored helped us calibrate the calls that 
we paid attention to, too. 
And if we got a call from a Goldman Sachs, I think it was on a Wednesday, maybe, you know, 
that was a transaction that couldn’t have been done the previous Wednesday and might not be 
done the next Wednesday. 
And we’re talking real sums, 5 billion in that case. And we had certain commitments 
outstanding. We had a $3 billion commitment out on Dow Chemical. I think at that point, I 
could be wrong exactly on the day when we made it. 
We had a $5 billion commitment out on Constellation Energy. We had 6 1/2 billion we were 
going to have to come up with in early October on the Wrigley-Mars deal. So we were faced 
with opportunity cost-type considerations. 
And as I said earlier, we actually sold something that under normal circumstances we wouldn’t 
have thought about selling if it was 10 or 15 points higher, in Johnson & Johnson. But we just 
didn’t want to get uncomfortable. 
So you are faced, in a chaotic market, particularly where people needs large sums — so you’re 
not talking about buying a hundred million dollars’ worth of something that, you know, one day 
and a hundred million the next day — but all of a sudden you’re called on for billions, if you’re 
going to play at all. 
We faced that opportunity cost calculation frequently during that period. I mean, when we 
decided to commit to buy Constellation Energy, we had to be willing to come up with $5 billion 
seven or eight months down the line. And you didn’t know exactly when because it would be 
subject to public utility commission approval. 
But if something chaotic happened in the market next week, we would get phone calls. Or we 
would see stocks selling or bonds selling at prices we liked. And if the relative values, against 
what we held, were interesting, we might sell things. 
Now, it’s harder to sell things in huge quantities than it is to buy things in huge quantities 
during a period like that. So you have to measure whether you can actually get the offsetting 
transaction done to move from one to another. 
We have a much — if we’re going to move billions from one to another, it’s much different than 
the problem you may have in moving hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands of dollars 
from one holding to another. We really can have big transactional costs unless we’re careful. 
But that’s the kind of calculation we go through. And we love the fact we get the opportunity to 
make those calculations. It’s a sign of opportunity around. 
And you know, we’ll — we haven’t had the flurry of activity like we had last year for a long time. 
So it was the first time we really faced the question, you know, can we raise a couple billion 
dollars in a hurry, to be sure that we’ve offset the cash needs of what we’re committing to on 
the purchase side. 
On the Johnson & Johnson we sold, we actually made a deal where we got — I had a floor price 
on what we sell that for, just because the markets were so chaotic, that we wanted to be 
absolutely sure that we would not end up a couple billion dollars less than comfortable when 
we got all through. 
Our definition of comfortable is really comfortable. We want to have billions and billions and 
billions around. And then we’ll think about what we do with the surplus. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Again, I’ve got nothing to add. 
36. GEICO spends millions on advertising and will “never stop” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This is a question from someone named Yem (PH) in Columbus, Ohio. It’s — 
WARREN BUFFETT: That narrows it down. 
BECKY QUICK: Yeah. Very company specific. It says, “GEICO has been spending around 400 to 
$600 million on media advertising a year in the last few years. What are the deciding factors 
into how much to spend? And how could one estimate the net return on such spending?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a question people have been asking themselves since the 
beginning of advertising. 
And, you know, I’m not sure whether it was Marshall Field or John Dorrance at Campbell Soup, 
or something, one of those fellows said that, you know, when asked whether they didn’t waste 
a lot of money on advertising, he said, “Yeah, we waste half of it, but we don’t know which 
half.” (Laughter) 
And that is the nature of advertising. Although, we can measure it better with GEICO than most 
companies. 
We will spend about $800 million on advertising. We spend far more — even though we’re the 
third largest company — we’ve spent far more than State Farm or Allstate. And we will spend 
more and more and more. I mean, we will never stop. 
We were spending $20 million a year, a little over that, when we bought control of it in 1995. 
But we want everybody in the world to — well, everybody in the United States. We’re not going 
to be selling insurance in China or someplace very soon. 
But we want everybody in the United States to have in their mind the fact that there’s a good 
chance they can save money by picking up the phone or going to geico.com and checking it out. 
And important money. 
And when we get that message in people’s minds, you never know when it’s going to pay off 
later down the line. Because, as I mentioned earlier, starting in — around September 30th, we 
saw a big difference in the propensity of people to come to us to save $100 or $200, whereas 
they might not have cared about saving that before. So, we want — 
Here’s auto insurance. Everybody has to buy it. Nobody likes to buy it. But they like to drive. 
And if you like to drive, you need auto insurance. 
And so it’s going to sell. And you’re going to buy it from somebody. And if you care about saving 
money, you’re going to check with us. And we want to make sure everybody understands that. 
And we won’t — you know, we will spend more money on it, I will guarantee you, three years 
from now. 
Now, we’re getting more for our money in buying advertising this year. So 800 million this year 
buys more than 800 million would’ve bought a couple of years ago. So we’re getting more 
exposure for the money. 
But we love spending money on advertising at GEICO. And we want to be in everybody’s mind. 
Coca-Cola’s in everybody’s mind around the world. You know, he started in 1886. And they just 
kept associating Coca-Cola with moments of pleasure and happiness. And billions and billions of 
billions of people have that in their mind. 
And they don’t have anything in their mind about RC Cola, you know. You know, or — they just 
— you say RC Cola to somebody around the globe and they give you a blank stare. You say 
Coca-Cola and it means something. 
And a brand is a promise. We’re getting our — we’re getting that promise in people’s minds 
that there’s a good chance they can save money if they check with GEICO. And we’ll never stop. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, it’s interesting. 
If GEICO would remain more or less the same size if we didn’t advertise so healthy, and if the 
new subscribers are worth more than the $800 million we’re spending advertising, then, in an 
important sense, GEICO is earning $800 million more pre-tax in a way that doesn’t even show. 
That’s the kind of thing we like to see within Berkshire Hathaway. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The value of GEICO goes up by far more than the earnings every year, if we 
keep adding these people, as Charlie says. 
And we could maintain, I’m sure, we can maintain for a very long time our present policy holder 
count and probably spend $100 million a year, maybe less. 
But we are getting more than our money’s worth for the — for what we spend. We probably 
waste some. But overall, we’re getting at terrific return on it. 
And if I thought we could get anything like the same return by spending 2 billion next year, 
we’d spend 2 billion. I mean, it — it’s a very attractive business. And I don’t see how you create 
anything like it. 
I mean, we are the low-cost producer. And if you’re the low-cost producer in something people 
have to buy and is roughly a $1,500 item, I mean, you’ve got a terrific, terrific business. And we 
have durable competitive advantage there. 
37. Wells Fargo is better than many other banks 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, we’ll to go to number 1. And I think then we’ll break for lunch. Number 
1? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: OK. Hello Warren, Charlie. Felton Jenkins from Savannah, Georgia, a long-
time shareholder and partner. 
Just want to make a quick comment about something that was a big deal the last couple of 
years about PacifiCorp. There was some controversy. 
But I’m glad that PacifiCorp has agreed to work with the Native Americans and fishing 
communities on the West Coast to remove the uneconomic and harmful dams on the Klamath 
River. 
So I want to encourage PacifiCorp management to move quickly, close the deal, and open the 
river soon. But thanks for their improved efforts over the last year. 
My question is, you mentioned Wells Fargo got to $9. And that was a great deal, it looks like, at 
that price. 
But what about Washington Mutual, AIG, Wachovia, Citigroup, Fannie Mae, even some Irish 
banks that I think you were involved with? 
Those went through $9. And probably a lot of people thought they were still good deals or 
mispriced at $9. 
And now you’ve got very expensive toilet paper, essentially, out of those stock certificates. So I 
mean, how would you know on the way down? 
And looking at something like Bank of America, that was on the 13F sometime recently, what’s 
a likely outcome for a Bank of America and how would you analyze what might happen? 
Thanks. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, there’s some you can’t analyze. And on the Irish banks, I couldn’t have 
been more wrong. 
But it isn’t a matter of whether they go through $9 or anything like that. It’s really what their 
business model is and what kind of competitive advantage they have. 
I would say that Wells, among the large banks, has, by far, the best competitive position, you 
know, of any — of the really large banks in the country. 
And essentially, if you look at the four largest, they each have somewhat different models. But 
the model of Wells is more different from the other three than any one of the other three 
would be from the remaining group. 
But I was wrong on the Irish banks in a very big way. I simply didn’t understand. And I should’ve 
understood. 
It was available for me to understand, the incredible exposure they’d got into in more land 
development-type loans — not property loans, in terms of completed properties — but all kinds 
of land development loans. 
It was extraordinary. For a country with 4 and a fraction million people, you know, they had 
money lent for developing properties, homes, that would extend just forever in the future. 
It was the terrible mistake by me. Nobody lied to me, nobody gave me any bad information. I 
just plain wasn’t paying attention. The — 
If you talk about the WaMus — I don’t want to go through all the names on them, because it’s 
specific to some companies. 
But there were a lot of signs that they were doing things that a highly leveraged institution 
shouldn’t be doing. And that could cause trouble if this model of ever-rising housing prices 
turned out to be a false model. 
You can get in a lot of trouble with leverage. I mean, it’s — you start creating $20 of assets, or 
something like that. You know, for every dollar of equity, you better be right. 
And some of those big institutions did some very — what, in retrospect, for certain here — 
were foolish things, which, if they hadn’t been so highly leveraged, would not have hit them as 
badly. 
And I would say most of them, if you read the 10-Ks and 10-Qs and did some checking, you 
could spot differences in them. Certainly, you can spot — 
There’s no comparison, if you take Wells Fargo versus a WaMu or something like that. I mean, 
you don’t have to have an advanced level of sophistication about banking to compare those 
two. 
They’re two different kinds of businesses. It’s like comparing a copper producer whose costs 
are $2.50 a pound with a copper producer whose costs are $1 a pound. 
Those are two different kinds of businesses. One is going to go broke at a buck-fifty a pound. 
And the other one’s going to still be doing fine. 
And banking has real difference in it. But people don’t — they don’t seem to look at them. The 
figures are available. And — but they don’t seem to look at them very carefully. 
When Wells reported the other day, they have an item of expense of over $600 million in a 
quarter for the amortization of core deposits. That it not a real expense. 
I mean, the core deposit figure will be up over time. And they are entitled under the tax law to 
put up, I don’t know, $15 billion or so, and they get to amortize that, which is an advantage. 
But I didn’t see one newspaper article or any commentator that mentioned that that $600 
million charge is in there, which is entirely different than looking at any other bank. But it just 
— it goes unnoticed. 
So the figures are there. And the information’s there. And I think with Freddy and Fannie, for 
example, I think it was pretty clear what was going to happen. 
Now, the interesting thing is, the government was telling them to go out and raise some more 
money for investors. And if those investors had put the money in, it would’ve been gone. It was 
already gone, actually, within a month or two, so —. 
We had calls on that, people trying to — investment bankers — trying to place billions of dollars 
with us on something, on those two institutions. And you just could take one look at them and 
you could tell they were in big, big trouble. 
You do have to know a little bit about — you have to know something about banking and 
what’s going on in the various kinds of lending and everything. 
And I would say that generally speaking, for people that don’t spend a lot of time on their 
investments, they’re going to have trouble separating financial institutions. 
I think it’s much easier to come to a conclusion on something like Coca-Cola or Procter & 
Gamble than it is for a person who is spending only a limited amount of time on investing to 
make a decision on whether to own bank A, or bank B, or bank C. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, there’s another problem. Generally accepted accounting principles 
allow a conservative, sensible bank to show vastly increased earnings if it changes its practices 
to make a lot of extremely dumb loans in large volumes. 
Generally accepted accounting principles should not be constructed to allow this result. It’s — 
that what seduces so many of these bankers into this ghastly decision-making. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, when we bought Gen Re, they had a financial products division. It was 
named similarly to the AIG one. It was called Gen Re Financial Products — AIG Financial 
Products. 
And it produced numbers regularly that were always satisfactory numbers. But, you know, 
when we looked at that, you know, it looked like all kinds of trouble to us. 
It cost us over 400 million to get out of. And a black box like that can produce — that’s why 
managements love them to some degree, they can produce numbers. 
They don’t necessarily produce cash. And they sure as hell can produce all kinds of problems if 
you have to start posting collateral and doing things of that sort. 
And I would say it is tough for, you might say, the passive investor, the one who’s not spending 
very much time on it. I would say it’s difficult for them to discern when that’s going on. 
So I — it’s not a bad area to just say, “This one’s too tough,” and go onto something else that’s 
a lot easier. 
I think you can analyze a utility operation easier or, you know, some premier consumer 
company or something of the sort. 
I don’t think I would look for the tough situations to differentiate tough industries in which to 
differentiate things. 
But there are huge differentiations. And again, I urge to read the JP Morgan Chase — Jamie 
Dimon’s letter. Because you’ll learn a lot by reading that. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But a lot of the new regulation that is coming wouldn’t have even been 
needed if accounting had done a better job, particularly in banking. 
And yet, I have yet to meet an accountant from any of the big firms who has said, “I’m ashamed 
of my own profession.” 
That’s a mistake in accounting. If they don’t have shame, they’re not thinking right. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, with that happy thought, we will — (laughter) — we will go to lunch 
now. 
We’ll reconvene about — let’s reconvene about a quarter of one. We’ll start at that time with 
Andrew and move onto section 2 when we come back. 
 
 
