 
2022 Annual Meeting 
 
1. When the owners are really old, it’s good to see them in person 
WARREN BUFFETT: (Applause) Thank you. 
I don’t hear anything from the index funds. Where are they? (Laughter) 
It really feels good to get back and be doing this in person. It’s been three years. And it’s a lot 
better seeing actual shareholders, owners, partners. (Applause) 
We — Charlie and I are now, combined, (unintelligible) round for fractions — the two of us are 
190 years old. (Laughter) 
And I really think you’re entitled, if you’re the owner of a company, and if you’ve got two guys, 
98 and 91 running the company, you’re entitled to actually see them in person, I mean. 
(Laughter) 
It really shouldn’t be too much to ask. I mean, for example, if we had a manager someplace that 
was 98, I might want to send somebody by occasionally to see whether he was cutting paper 
(Laughter) dolls or something. 
So, we probably do things that are a lot more foolish than cutting out paper dolls, but we’re 
having a lot of fun doing it. 
And we really have a lot of fun when you come visit us. 
Actually, we had — if you go back a few years — we’ve had a couple of managers that suffered 
from dementia. Probably many more but, I mean, just a couple of known ones, actually. 
(Laughter) 
And there was one fellow that Charlie and I really loved. 
And he ran a business for us. Charlie — it was out in California — Charlie would see him 
occasionally, and I didn’t see him. But everything seemed fine. And then we found out that he’d 
really been suffering from dementia for quite a while. And he really was a wonderful friend of 
both of ours. 
But the business had done fine, so that’s become our test really, (Laughter) for new businesses. 
We try to find something that a guy with Alzheimer’s can run, actually. (Laughter) 
And you don’t have as much competition for businesses like that. (Laughter) The guy sitting 
there cutting out paper dolls and, you know, that’s our man. (Laughter) 
2. Greg Abel and Ajit Jain introduced 
WARREN BUFFETT: I’d like to introduce two fellows who really work at Berkshire. 
On Charlie’s left, Greg Abel, who runs all the operations outside — (Applause) — yeah. 
And next to him is — I ran the insurance business for about 15 years unsuccessfully. And then 
fortunately, the fellow on the far left came in one day — and I’ve written about it — but he 
came in on a Saturday. And I was opening the mail, and he said that he’d be happy to run our 
insurance business. 
I said, “Have you ever run an insurance business?” And he said, “No.” And as I’ve mentioned, I 
said to him, “Well, you know, I’ve never run one either, so I’m not doing so hot, so (Laughter) 
give it a try.” 
And, you know, he transformed Berkshire Hathaway. And Ajit Jain is here with us. (Applause) 
3. The day’s schedule 
WARREN BUFFETT: What we’ll do today — and I have to remind myself from time to time that 
the people here, of course, saw that movie and everything, but, of course, we’re webcasting 
this. 
So, I’ll probably make some references to the movie or something that’ll puzzle (Laughter) 
millions of people out there, but you’ll get it, so — (Laughter) 
We’re going to talk for a little while about what’s happened in the last quarter and bring up a 
few other things that you might be interested in. 
And we will then, whenever that’s finished, we’ll go on to questions. And we will take the 
questions until noon, break for an hour — that’s Midwest time for those of you who are 
watching in other time zones — we’ll go on until noon. And we’ll break for an hour. 
And then Charlie and I will come back, and we’ll take more questions until 3:30. And then we’ll 
convene the shareholders meeting at 3:45 — we’ll take a break for 15 minutes — and then 
we’ll do the shareholders meeting. And when that’s done, we’ll all go our various ways. 
4. See’s brought 11 tons of candy to sell 
WARREN BUFFETT: I do want to report, incidentally, that you’ve been doing your part, in terms 
of the room we have adjacent to this location, where we’ve been — yesterday for five hours, 
from noon to 5, we had 12,000 shareholders come, and just spend money on everything we 
could think of to sell them. (Laughter) 
We brought in 11 tons of See’s Candy. And if we don’t sell out, Charlie and I get the rest, so. 
(Laughter) 
But you did your part. See’s sold — they set a record yesterday for the Friday afternoon 
meeting. And it’s (Cheering) pretty heartening. (Applause) Yeah. 
Incidentally, I’ve got a box of See’s Candy here, and it’s very — it’s sort of interesting. 
On this cover, which I hope you can see, there’s a picture of a woman who was born in 1854. 
And today, she probably gets her picture seen more often than just about any woman in 
America, in terms of a commercial product or something of the sort. 
So, we’ve got her picture up in over 200 stores, and on every box of candy. That’s Mary See, 
born in 1854. 
A lot of people think this is me in drag, but that is not true. (Laughter) I mean — 
There’s a certain resemblance, but (Laughter) it’s just not. 
These rumors are started by our competitors. Don’t pay any attention to them. (Laughter) 
5. We like to give everybody financial information at the same time 
WARREN BUFFETT: So, we will — that’s our schedule for the day. 
And what we will do — we like to give all — we like to give shareholders — owners — partners 
— we like to give everybody the same information at the same time, and preferably do it when 
stock markets aren’t open. It seems to us that that’s — everybody ought to be on the same 
playing field. 
It’s very interesting — we don’t know how many shareholders we’ve got. They’ve changed the 
rules over time as to registered holders and getting stock certificates and all that sort of thing. 
So, we can’t keep track of it like 50 or 75 years ago, where we had an actual shareholders list. 
But we’re told — we’re told by the people who mail out our information — it’s a firm in, I think, 
New Jersey — let’s see — Broadridge — and they pretty well do this for a very significant 
percentage of American corporations. 
So, they actually mail things out for us. And they bill us for 3 1/2 million accounts. And I’ll take 
their word for it. I mean, the more accounts they bill us for — we pay them by the account — 
so, you know, somedays, I feel like I’d like to count — but that is a — (Laughter) — that is a lot 
of people that trust us. 
And they’ve — rightly in my view — overwhelmingly — feel that they’re our partners. 
And some of them will like reading the financial information they’ve given us — that we give 
you. 
But most — a great many of them just say, you know, “We’ve saved this money. And we trust 
you and Charlie.” And that’s a great motivator, this trust. 
“And, you know, take care of it and I’m not going to learn accounting and try to read all those 
statements or anything of the sort.” 
But we do believe that, for those who do use the information we release, they should all get it 
at the same time. 
And we have a few institutions that, even though in the third paragraph of my letter every year 
I refer to the fact that we want to have everybody get the same information, and that we don’t 
feel that anybody’s entitled to special meetings — we can’t hold 3 million special meetings with 
our partners —but we like the fact that everybody gets the same deal, everybody gets the same 
information. 
This morning, on the internet, we put up our 10-Q for the quarter. And I’d like to take you 
through a few comments on that and a few other comments, and then we’ll get to the 
questions. 
When we get to the questions, we will alternate between those mailed in by shareholders, 
which Becky Quick at CNBC and people who’ve helped her, sort of curated, to get what they 
think are the most interesting questions from shareholders. They’re not from CNBC itself, but 
they are from shareholders, owners. 
And we’ll alternate the ones sent in versus the ones that come here. And we don’t get the 
questions ahead of time. And we enjoy getting surprised by, I’d say, almost all questions. 
(Laughs) 
And we will keep doing that, like I say, with a break for lunch, until 3:30, when we’ll have the 
meeting, so — 
6. We have an “extreme aversion” to losing your money 
WARREN BUFFETT: I would like to start by putting up the first slide, which is Q1. And there we 
have it. That’s what we published this morning. And there are really no great surprises in terms 
of the quarter. 
I mean, there are always some companies that are doing very well, and there are some 
companies that aren’t for one reason or another. 
And in the end, as you can see, we prefer to use something called operating earnings. Now, that 
is after depreciation and interest and taxes, unlike other companies that prefer to tell you 
anything but what they earned. 
But we do separate out capital gains. Now, over time, as I’ve said, over the next 20 years, I 
would expect us, net, to have more capital gains than not. But, you know, who knows? I hope 
you’ll — you know, I’ll report to you in 20 years whether that’s (Laughter) happened or not. 
But, as you can see, we made about $7 billion in the first quarter. And that’s a real 7 billion. I 
mean, we basically have that income in cash when the quarter’s over. That isn’t true every 
quarter, exactly, but we are talking about 7 billion of real money in that. 
And those managers who the people here saw in the movie, they’re the people that work with 
your money to accomplish what Charlie and I never thought would — never really planned or 
anything to happen — but it just, sort of, came about just, sort of, putting one foot in front of 
the other. 
Now obviously, the last two years in particular, including the first quarter, all kinds of unusual 
things happened in our various businesses. 
I mean, when we had the meeting two years ago in May of — roughly the start of May of 2020 
— we didn’t know what was going to happen with the pandemic. We didn’t know what was 
going to happen with the economy. And everybody that thought they did has gotten all kinds of 
surprises since. 
But here we are in 2022 and Berkshire, like I say, had 7 billion of operating earnings. And we’ve 
got lots, and lots, and lots of companies. We’ve got 360,000 people out there that have taken 
your savings and go to work every day. 
And they have jobs. We deliver products. And you put up the money for it and you deserve to 
— you took the risks, and we feel very good about how things have turned out. And we want to 
keep feeling good. 
And we have a — we have a — extreme aversion to incurring any permanent loss with your 
funds. 
You know, if I went broke, it wouldn’t really make any difference. It’d keep doing what I do. I’d 
figure out a way to read a paper and watch a little TV (Laughter) and think about things and talk 
to Charlie. 
But the idea of losing, permanently, other people’s money — people who trust us — really, 
really — that’s just a future I don’t want to have. And as Charlie says, “All I want to know is 
where I’ll die so I’ll never go there.” And — (Laughter) — that seems pretty sound. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s worked so far. 
WARREN BUFFETT: In case you missed it, Charlie says it’s worked so far. (Laughter) 
And we would die, psychologically, if we lost a lot of other people’s money. We wouldn’t take it 
in the first place. It’d be crazy to take people’s money and lose it if you’re going to feel terrible 
about doing it. 
So, the one thing I can tell you about Berkshire — although I can’t predict what our earnings 
will be, and I can’t predict what the stock will do, and I can’t — we don’t know. We don’t know 
what the economy will do and all of that sort of thing. 
But we do know that we wake up every morning and we want to be safer, in terms of your 
eventual investment. 
Now, whether you make the most money or anything, we do not want you to get a terrible 
result because you’ve decided to become our partner. And that’s a pledge you can live by. 
7. “We spent 40 billion in a hurry there in three weeks” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, let’s see what we have here. 
In [slide] Q-2, it gives some indication of that, because we — and this is kind of interesting. 
I wrote — I wrote a letter to our owners. And it was dated February 26th. And that was a 
Saturday — released. But I write the letter all through the year in my mind. I mean — I don’t — 
you know, we don’t have anybody that sits out and writes out the letter or anything like that. I 
mean, this is a letter between partners. 
And I write the letter all year in my head. I’m writing next year’s letter. I don’t write out the 
words, but I have things I want to tell my partners. 
My sister’s a partner. And I’m writing to her in my head. My older sister died not too long ago, 
but I used to be writing to both of them, in effect. 
And want to tell her, you know, what I think and about the business and what I think she ought 
to think about it, and so on. 
So, the letter’s dated February 26th. And I said, “Not much is going on.” And actually, we might 
jump over to [slide] Q-3, if we will. 
So, I sent out a letter on February 26th. But that wasn’t written on February 26th. And I said 
basically, “Nothing much is happening around here.” And I said, “We’ve repurchased some 
shares. And we just aren’t seeing anything.” 
And between January 1st and February 18th, as you can see, we spent $2.2 billion, which is half 
the quarter, you know, so probably 30 trading days in there. And we sold — 
So basically, we didn’t do anything. And then in the next three weeks or thereabouts, we spent 
40 billion. 
And incidentally, when I say we spent 40 billion, there’s one fellow in the office that does this 
all. I mean, he buys all the stocks. He buys the government bonds. He doesn’t have an assistant 
or anything. But he spent $41 billion. (Laughter) 
Yeah. He literally — I mean — and he does other things for me, too. He, you know, puts 
together totals. He just does what he needs to do. And he’s worked in other jobs at Berkshire 
long ago. 
But he likes doing what he does. And he does it very well, and we don’t have a department for 
it. 
And as you can see, it fell off after that. And we did also in the first — in the first quarter, we 
spent about 3.1 or 3.2 billion — somewhere in that — for repurchasing shares. And — 
We didn’t — you know, we talked about that in the annual report. And as Charlie would say, it’s 
keeping us out of bars. I mean, you know, it gave us something to do. 
And it — we never do anything that we don’t think adds to the value of Berkshire Hathaway, 
though. So we only repurchase the shares when that is the most attractive thing. 
We haven’t repurchased any shares at all in April. So, it’s — 
People who are looking for all these, you know, footprints in the woods and all — that isn’t 
what we’re doing. We’re just doing it day by day as it comes along. 
And I think this table kind of illustrates that, that we spent 40 billion in a hurry there between 
— in three weeks. 
And now we’re back, somewhat, in our more lethargic mood. But that — anything could change 
at Berkshire. 
8. Cash is like “oxygen” 
WARREN BUFFETT: But the one thing that won’t change — going back to [slide] Q-2, if you’ll — 
is we will always have a lot of cash on hand. 
And when I say cash, I don’t mean commercial paper. 
When 2008 and 2009 — the national panic came along — we didn’t own anybody’s commercial 
paper. You know, we didn’t have money market funds. We have Treasury bills. And, as I may 
get into it a little later, I’ll explain to you why. 
We would — we believe in having cash. 
And there have been a few times in history, and there will be more times in history, where if 
you don’t have it, you know, you don’t get to play the next day. I mean, it’s just — 
It’s like oxygen, you know? It’s there all the time. But if it disappears for a few minutes, it’s all 
over. So — 
Our cash was down on March 31st because, as you saw, we spent that large sum there in that 
brief period during the quarter, 40 billion. 
We’ve committed to buy Alleghany Corp for something over 11 billion. 
But we will always have a lot of cash. We won’t — we don’t — 
Some of our companies have bank lines. I don’t know why they have the bank lines. We’re 
better than the banks, and we’ll give them the money if they (laughs) need it. 
But, you know, the local bankers have been calling on them and they need something to do. 
Everybody else has bank lines, so it’s harmless. But there’s no reason for any of our subsidiaries 
— (UNINTEL). Berkshire is stronger than the banks, but — (Yell from audience) 
I didn’t hear exactly what he had — I don’t know whether that was a banker screaming, or — 
(Laughter) 
I don’t — I don’t really like to torture — I don’t like to torture anybody, I mean. (Laughs) 
But — and I’m all for banks, and we’ll talk about that a little later. 
In fact, we might even talk about it right now just for a minute. 
Money’s kind of an interesting thing. People seem to like to talk to me about it. I mean, they 
don’t ask me how to dance or anything like that, but they do ask about money. 
And so — if we’ll put up [slide] 20-dash-1 — it’s a photo of a $20 bill. And it says at the top, 
“Federal Reserve Notes.” Now — Federal Reserve Note — we’ve done all kinds of things with 
money in this country. It’s amazing, in a country only a couple of hundred years old, the 
number of different experiments we’ve made with banks and everything. 
But we finally just decided to let the Federal Reserve do the issuing of money. And — 
Down in the lower left-hand corner — incidentally, I think [former U.S. Treasury Secretary] 
Rosie Rios — who signed this note — I think she signed more U.S. currency than any other 
person in history. 
So, if you see Rosie, you know, you cozy up to her. I mean, this is a woman who (laughs) has 
issued a lot of currency. 
But it says, “This note is legal tender for all debts public and private.” And that makes it money. 
You can go into our candy store, and if you offer us enough bushels of wheat, we’ll probably 
give you a box of candy. 
But money is the only thing that the IRS is going to take from you. You can offer them all kinds 
of — you can offer them paintings — you can offer them — all — whatever — but this is what 
settles debts in the United States. 
And I thought that — you’ll hear a lot about various kinds of money — this is the only kind of 
money you’re going to see, in my opinion, throughout your lifetime or even throughout 
Charlie’s lifetime. This is — 
And it’s very interesting because it just says that settle — legal tender for all debts, public and 
private, and nothing else says that, except, I thought you might be interested in seeing another 
$20 bill. 
And this one I own. And on that — it’s got the same guy’s picture — Andrew Jackson — and 
everything. 
And that’s a $20 bill. And that $20 bill was issued during my lifetime. And it was done by a bank 
that Berkshire ended up owning. So, you’ll see the Illinois National Bank and Trust of Rockford. 
And we bought that bank back in 1969. And if you look down in the bottom of that one, it’s 
signed by a fellow named Eugene Abegg. And we bought it from Eugene Abegg. 
So, we still have some $20 bills that came in sheets. And we can cut them out like paper dolls. 
And they’re our money. The Illinois National Bank issued money. 
But just remember, the United States government, in effect, said that this became 
exchangeable for lawful money in the United States. That’s what money is. 
It may turn out that it becomes worth dramatically less in purchasing power. It can become 
almost like paper money, as it has in many countries. But that is all — when people tell you that 
they’re issuing new forms of money, this is the only thing that will pay bills, under some 
circumstances. 
And there were days — a few days in 2008 — and we came very close to having a repeat in 
March, 2020 — and we had plenty of money on March 20th — but we were not very, very far 
away from having something that might have been a repeat of 2008 or even worse. 
And we have a bookstore here: The Bookworm. It’s in the other room. And they’ve got a book 
called Trillion Dollar Triage. 
And for those of you who actually like to read about this sort of thing, it’s a marvelous account 
of what took place day by day with the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. 
And believe me, if the Federal Reserve hadn’t done what they did, at least in my view, in a very, 
very, very short period of time, things could have stopped. 
And I tipped my hat a couple years ago to [Federal Reserve Chairman] Jay Powell for acting as 
he did. He has to act with speed. I mean, in the old days when you had runs on banks back in 
the 19th century, you know, a line formed, you know, and a bank would go broke. 
But the fellow would pay out as slowly as possible, you know, hoping something would happen 
— a Wells Fargo truck or a stagecoach would pull up with a bunch of gold or something and 
you’d sweet-talk the people in the line dispersing. 
In Omaha, in August of 1931, four state banks — so-called state banks — they had those in that 
day — they closed and the national banks didn’t. But they were all broke as of that day. No 
bank can pay off in one day all of its liabilities. But the Federal Reserve is the only one that 
stood at that time. 
But I will tell you this. Berkshire Hathaway will be there (laughs) at that time. 
We run it on the basis that if things had just behaved slightly — very — if [former U.S. Treasury 
Secretary] Hank Paulson, George H. W. Bush — or no, George W. Bush, I’m sorry — and [former 
Federal Reserve Chairman] Ben Bernanke and a few people hadn’t taken action, we were at 
that point where the line was formed, except it comes in electronic funds — they push buttons 
— and it’s all over very fast if there’s a run on a bank. 
If you ever buy a bank, and there are two banks in town, hire a few extras, and have them go 
over and start standing in line at the other guy’s bank. (Laughter) 
And there’s only one problem with that. After a while, somebody will stand in front of your 
bank, you know, and then both of you are gone. 
But the Federal Reserve is not gone. And the Federal Reserve in the United States can do 
whatever is necessary. They’ve got all kinds of rules about — they can do this or that, and this 
and that. 
And at one time in the 1980s, [former Federal Reserve Chairman] Paul Volcker, who was a very 
honest man, said to me — I said, you know, “What are the limits of what you can do?” 
And he said — he was a very unusual guy — and huge — looked down at me — and said, “We 
can do whatever we need to do.” (Laughs) 
And that’s true. And that’s what happened in 2008 and ’09, and that’s what happened in 2020. 
And you hope it happens again next time. But you want to be — we want Berkshire Hathaway 
to be there and in a position to operate when — if the economy stops. 
And that can always happen. That can always happen. 
So, with those cheery words — (laughter) — let’s see if we — I think — maybe if we can actually 
— it might be a good idea to start with some questions. 
As I said, we will have the questions alternate between CNBC — Becky Quick — and those are 
questions that have come in from shareholders. And they can be directed to any of the four of 
us up here. And then we will alternate and go around the room here. 
And we’ve got the auditorium broken into ten or 11 sections. 
Charlie and I one time, we got out a form and it said, “Officers of the company broken down by 
age,” and we just put all of us (laughs) as an answer to that question. 
But we’ll have it broken down by categories around here. And we’ll keep alternating. And we 
will break for lunch at noon and reconvene at 1:00. 
9. How a casual email led to the Alleghany insurance deal 
WARREN BUFFETT: So, let’s start off and Becky, will you lead the way? 
BECKY QUICK: Thanks, Warren. The first question comes from Jack Suselesky (PH). And he says, 
“In the annual letter that you wrote on February 26th, you mentioned that Charlie and you saw 
‘little that excites us in the market.’ Yet around March 10th, the deal for Alleghany was 
announced, and then later the Occidental announcement, then the disclosure of the HP 
investment.” 
His question is, “What changed from the time you dated the letter to the time the investments 
were announced that the names suddenly become interesting in the space of a month and a 
half, or half a month?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, Charlie, you want to give your version? I’ll give my version. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, my version would be we found some things we preferred owning to 
Treasury bills. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: And as usual, Charlie’s given the total answer, but I’ll talk longer and say 
less. (Laughter) 
Actually, the letter’s dated February 26th, when we were confessing our inability to find 
anything, which was a Saturday. But the day before that, February 25th, I got an email. 
Actually, my assistant, Debbie Bosanek, gets it because I can’t figure out quite how to handle 
the machinery. 
So, she brought it in. Actually, she puts a bunch on the edge of her desk, and I collect them 
occasionally. 
And there was a note, just a few lines long, from a fellow that is a friend of mine and that 
worked for Berkshire many years ago. And this was on February 25th, the day before the thing. 
And he said he’d now become CEO of Alleghany Corp. I’ve been following Alleghany Corp for 60 
years. Now, I’d read their annual reports. I had four big file drawers full of them because it was 
an interesting company. And all companies interested me. 
WARREN BUFFETT: So, I knew a lot about Alleghany Corp. (Laughs) 
And Joe [Brandon] said, you know, “This is my first annual report as CEO, and I just wanted to 
send it along to you. Just like you write for your sisters,” he says, “I write this report as if I’m 
writing to you.” 
And I sent a note back to Joe. And I said, you know, “I’m going to read it over the weekend,” or 
whatever I said to him on it, which was true. I mean, I looked forward to reading it. 
And I said, “By the way, I’m going to be in New York on March 7th. And can we get together? I’d 
like to see you.” 
And, I think I may have said, “I’ve got an idea.” Well, I didn’t have that idea the day before. 
(Laughs) 
This thing happened to come in on Friday the 26th. And I knew I’d buy Alleghany at a price. And 
if he hadn’t sent me the note, it never would’ve occurred to me to write him and say, “Why 
don’t we get together on March 7th?” or anything of the sort. 
It just wouldn’t have happened, except for the fact that Joe wanted to send me along this 
annual report that he’d just written. 
So that’s the orderly decision-making process. I didn’t call up investment bankers and say, you 
know, “Will you prepare me a report on this? And, you know, what’s your advice?” and all that 
stuff. 
I knew we’d buy Alleghany at the price we offered. And if it was of interest to Alleghany, fine. If 
it wasn’t — 
But otherwise, if that email hadn’t been sent, we would not have made an offer for Alleghany. 
So, give credit to the fact that Joe had written the annual report, and if he’d sent it a week 
earlier, well — you know, I wasn’t going to make a special trip to New York, but I wanted to sit 
down with him and tell him what Berkshire would do. 
But that explains the 11 billion. (Laughs) 
10. People gambling on stocks made big Occidental stock buys possible 
WARREN BUFFETT: And what happened was that a few stocks got very interesting to us. And 
we also spent a lot of money. 
What happened — the market — and this is really important to understand — in the last couple 
years, the stock market has probably — it’s always been a combination of a casino and a — and 
when I talk about Wall Street, I’m talking about the whole capital formation market — but the 
— and trading market, et cetera. 
But the market has been extraordinary. 
Sometimes it’s quite investment oriented. It’s not like it — it’s always what you’ve read about in 
the books and everything — what capital markets are supposed to do, and you study it in 
school and all that. And other times, it’s almost totally a casino, and it’s a gambling parlor. 
And that existed to an extraordinary degree in the last couple of years — encouraged by Wall 
Street because the money is in turning over stocks. I mean, people say how wonderfully you’ve 
done if you bought Berkshire in, you know, 1965 or something and held it. But your broker 
would’ve starved to death. 
Wall Street makes money on — one way or another — catching the crumbs that fall off a table 
of capitalism and an incredible economy that, you know, nobody could’ve ever dreamed of a 
couple hundred years ago. 
But they don’t make money unless people do things (laughs) and if they get a piece of them. 
And they make a lot more money when people are gambling than when they’re investing. It’s 
much better to have somebody that’s going to trade 20 times a day and get all excited about it, 
just like pulling the handle on a slot machine. You know, that’s who you — you know — 
You may not say that you want that person. You’d like the other kind of person, too, maybe, 
but that’s where you make the money. (Laughs) 
And the degree to which the market got dominated by that is shown on a slide some — I have it 
here somewhere. Yeah. Here’s — on [slide] Oxy-one — if you’ll put up the Oxy-one. 
That shows how we bought what became — well, we bought in two weeks, or thereabouts, 
14% of Occidental Petroleum. 
And you’ll say, “Well, how can you buy 14% of a company in two weeks?” And it’s more 
extreme than that, because if you look at the Occidental proxy, you’ll see that — the standard 
names — BlackRock index funds, State Street index funds, basically, Vanguard index funds, and 
then one other firm, Dodge & Cox. 
If you take those four entities — and they’re not going to buy and sell stock — they may get 
their own little — so they own 40% of the company, roughly, those four firms. 
And they didn’t do anything during this period. So now you’re down to 60% of the Occidental 
Petroleum Company that’s even available for sale. 
Occidental’s been around for years, and years, and years. Big company, all kinds of things. 
And with 60% of the stock outstanding, I go in and tell Mark Millard, this fellow that is 30 feet 
away from me or so, and I say in the morning to him, you know, “Buy 20% and take blocks, or 
whatever it may be.” 
And in two weeks, he buys 14% out of 60%. That’s not investment. (Laughter) 
I mean, you’re not buying from — I find it just incredible. 
You wouldn’t be able to do that with Berkshire. I mean, you can’t — literally buy it. You can say 
you want to buy 14% of the company. It’s going to take you a long, long time. 
But, overwhelmingly, large companies in America — well, all of them — they became poker 
chips. And people were buying and selling like three-day calls or two-day calls. And the more 
people — times people pull the handle on the machine, the more money the machine makes. I 
mean, it’s very clear. 
And overwhelmingly — I mean, where did the people go? The investors just were sitting around 
and there weren’t very many, and the money was being made, essentially, by a bunch of people 
gambling on things. And that enabled us, in a two-week period, to buy 14% of a business that’s 
been around for decades. 
Imagine trying to buy 14% of the farms in two weeks in this country, 14% of the apartment 
houses, or 14% of the auto dealerships, or just anything, when already 40% were locked up 
some other place. 
It is — it defies anything that Charlie and I have seen, and we’ve seen a lot. 
But I’ve never seen that percentage of the American public — essentially, it was a gambling 
parlor. 
And the people that were making money were people that worked with gamblers. (Laughs) 
And then it declined very significantly a few weeks ago. You can feel it if you’re around it. 
So, when somebody asks a very good question, this, “Why weren’t you doing anything on 
February 20th, and why were you doing it on — starting, well, in the case of Occidental, on 
February 28th?” — you know, it’s because things developed in a way — 
And in the case of Occidental specifically, they’d had an analyst presentation of some — I don’t 
know whether it was a quarterly one or what it was exactly — but I read it over a weekend — 
and that was the weekend when the annual report came out — I read it over a weekend. 
And what [CEO] Vicki Hollub was saying made nothing but sense. And I decided that it was a 
good place to put Berkshire’s money. 
And then I found out in the ensuing two weeks — it was there in black and white — there was 
nothing mysterious about it — but Vicki was saying what the company had gone through and 
where it was now and what they planned to do with the money. 
And she’ll do what — she says she doesn’t know the price of oil next year. Nobody does. 
But we decided it made sense. And two weeks later, we had 14% of the company. 
And we also already had a preferred stock and warrants. And the story of the preferred stock is 
we paid 10 billion — preferred stock and warrants — we paid 10 billion for it — and at the end 
