Afternoon Session - 2017 Meeting 
1. Berkshire and 3G’s different approaches to job cuts 
WARREN BUFFETT: Panel all here? OK. We’re back for action. And we’ll go right to Becky. 
BECKY QUICK: All right. This question comes from Anne Newman (PH). She says that she’s a 
shareholder of the Class B stock. 
And her question is, “The primary investment strategy of 3G Capital is extreme cost-cutting 
after the purchase of a company. This typically includes the elimination of thousands of jobs. 
“With the current U.S. president focusing on retention of U.S. jobs, will Berkshire Hathaway still 
consider future investments with 3G Capital if those investments result in the purchase of U.S. 
companies and the elimination of more U.S. jobs?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, the, essentially, 3G management — and I’ve watched them up very 
close at Kraft Heinz — is — basically, they don’t — they believe in having a company as 
productive as possible. 
And, of course, the gains in this world, for the people in this room, and people in Omaha, and 
people throughout America, have come through gains in productivity. 
If there had been no change in productivity, we would be living the same life as people lived in 
1776. 
Now, the people — the 3G people — do it very fast. And they’re very good at making a business 
productive with fewer people than operated before. 
But that — they’ve been, you know, we’ve been doing that in every industry, whether it’s steel, 
or cars, or you name it. And that’s why we live as well as we do. 
We prefer at Berkshire — I wrote about this a year ago — we prefer to buy companies that are 
already run efficiently because, frankly, we don’t enjoy the process at all of getting more 
productive. I mean, it’s not pleasant. 
But it is what has enabled the country to progress. And nobody has figured out a way to double 
people’s consumption per capita without, in some way, improving productivity per capita. 
It’s a good question in the — whether it’s smart overall if you think you’re going to suffer 
politically because political consequences do hit businesses. So I don’t know that I can answer 
the question categorically. 
But I can tell you that they not only focus on productivity and do it in a very intelligent way, but 
they also focus, to a terrific degree, on product improvement, innovation, and all of the other 
things that you want a management to focus on. 
And I hope that, at the lunchtime, if you had the Kraft Heinz cheesecake, you’ll agree with me 
that product improvement and innovation there is a — is just as much a part of the 3G 
playbook as productivity. I don’t — 
Personally, we have been through the process of buying into a textile business that employed a 
couple thousand people and went out of business over a period of time, or a department store, 
a business that was headed for oblivion. 
And it is just not as much fun to be in a business that cuts jobs rather than one that adds jobs. 
So, Charlie and I would probably forego, personally, having Berkshire directly buy businesses 
where the main benefits were come — would come from increasing productivity by actually 
having fewer workers. 
But I think it’s pro-social to think in terms of improving productivity. And I think that people at 
3G do a very good job at that. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I agree. I don’t see anything wrong with increasing productivity. On 
the other hand, there’s a lot of counterproductive publicity to doing it. Just because you’re right 
doesn’t mean you should always do it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I’d agree with that. 
2. Pressure to deploy Berkshire’s cash grows as it nears $100B 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jay? 
JAY GELB: Berkshire’s cash and Treasury bill holdings are approaching $100 billion. 
Warren, a year ago, you said Berkshire might increase its minimum valuation for share 
buybacks above 1.2 times book value if this occurred. What are your latest thoughts on raising 
the share repurchase threshold? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, the — when the time comes — and it could come reasonably soon, 
even while I’m around — but [if] we really don’t think we can get the money out in a 
reasonable period of time into things we like, we have to reexamine then what we do with 
those funds that we don’t think can be deployed well. 
And at that time, we’d make a decision. And it might include both, but it could be repurchases. 
It could be dividends. 
There are different inferences that people draw from a dividend policy than from a repurchase 
policy that, in terms of expectations that you won’t cut a dividend and that sort of thing. So you 
have to factor that all in. 
But if we really — if we felt that we had cash that was unlikely to be used — excess cash — in a 
reasonable period of time, and we thought repurchases at a price that was still attractive to 
continuing shareholders was feasible in a substantial sum, that could make a lot of sense. 
At the moment, we’re still optimistic enough about deploying the capital that we wouldn’t be 
inclined to move to a price much closer where there’s only a narrow spread between an 
intrinsic value and the repurchase price. But at a point, the burden of proof is definitely on us. 
I mean, that — I — the last thing we like to do is own something at a hundred times earnings 
where the earnings can’t grow. 
I mean, we’re — as you point out, we’ve got almost a hundred billion — it’s $90-plus billion 
invested in a business, we’ll call it a business, where we’re paying almost a hundred times 
earnings. And it’s kind of a lousy business. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s more after after-tax earnings. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. So, it — you know, we don’t like that. And we shouldn’t use your 
money that way for a long period of time. And, then, the question is, you know, are we going to 
be able to deploy it? 
And I would say that history is on our side, but it’d be more fun if the phone would ring instead 
of just relying on history books. 
And, you know, I am sure that sometime in the next 10 years — and it could be next week or it 
could be nine years from now — there will be markets in which we can do intelligent things on 
a big scale. 
But it would be no fun if that happens to be nine years off. And I don’t think it will be, but just 
based on how humans behave and how governments behave and how the world behaves. 
But like I say, at a point, the burden of proof really shifts to us, big-time. And there’s no way I 
can come back here three years from now and tell you that we hold 150 billion or so in cash or 
more, and we think we’re doing something brilliant by doing it. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I agree with you. The answer is maybe. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: He does have a tendency to elaborate. (Laughter) 
3. CBT and animal rights 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. I am Anil Daron (PH) from Short 
Hills, New Jersey and New Delhi, India. 
This is my 18th time to this wonderful event, and profoundly thank you for your extraordinary 
wisdom, generosity, and time. 
As I’m involved with sustainable investments that also do not directly harm animals, I would 
appreciate your perspective, if any, on the practices of your CTB subsidiary, which is somewhat 
involved in pig, poultry, and egg production. 
Somewhat indirectly related, as you share your concern on nuclear war extensively at the last 
annual meeting, I would love to pick your brain on Albert Schweitzer’s Nobel Peace Prize 
acceptance speech, shortly after the first nuclear bombs were detonated, that compassion can 
attain its full breadth and depth if it is not limited to humans only. Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a pretty broad question. I would say on your first point, we have 
a subsidiary, CTB, run by Vic Mancinelli. And I sit down with him once a year. And he’s a terrific 
manager. He’s one of our very best. You don’t hear much about him. 
And they do make the equipment for poultry growers. And I would — I can’t answer your 
question specifically, but I would be glad to have you get in contact with Vic directly because I 
know that what — question you raised is a — it’s a major factor in what they do. 
I mean, they do care about how the equipment is used, in terms of poultry and egg production. 
And, as you know, a number of the largest purchasers and the largest producers are also in the 
same camp. But I can’t tell you enough about it directly that I can give you a specific answer. 
But I can certainly put you in touch with Vic. And I think you would find him extremely well-
informed and doing some very good things in the area that you’re talking about. 
In terms of the nuclear weapon question, I’m very pessimistic on weapons of mass destruction, 
generally. Although, I don’t think that nuclear, probably, is quite as likely as either biological — 
primarily, biological — and maybe cyber. I don’t know that much about cyber. 
But I do think that’s the number one problem with mankind. But I don’t think I can say anything 
particularly constructive on it now. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t think we mind killing chickens. (Laughter) 
And I do think we’re against nuclear war, so — (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Applause) 
We are not actually a poultry producer, but we do — they use our equipment. And that 
equipment has been changed substantially in the last 10 or 15 years. 
But, again, I’m not that good on the specifics that I can give them to you. But I can certainly you 
put you in touch with Vic. 
4. Giving Weschler and Combs more to manage wouldn’t help them 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew ? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Warren. Since Todd [Combs] and Ted [Weschler] joined Berkshire, the 
market cap of the company has doubled, and cash on hand is now nearly a hundred billion 
dollars. 
It doesn’t look like Todd and Ted have been allocated new capital on the same relative basis. 
Why? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, actually, I would say they have been. 
I think we started out with two billion. That could be wrong, but my memory was two billion 
with Todd when he came with us. And so, there have been substantial additions. 
And, of course, their own capital has grown just because — say, in a sense, they retain their 
own earnings. 
So yeah, they are managing a proportion of Berkshire’s capital — also measured by marketable 
securities — I think they’re managing a proportion that’s pretty similar, maybe even a little 
higher than when each one of them entered. And Ted entered a year or two after Todd. 
You know, they — I think they would agree that it’s tougher to run 10 billion than it is to run 
one or two billion. I mean, your expectable returns go down as you get into larger sums. 
But the decision to bring them on has been terrific. I mean, they have — they’ve done a good 
job of managing marketable securities. They made more money than I would’ve made with that 
same, what is now 20 billion, but originally was two billion. 
And they’ve been a terrific help in a variety of ways beyond just money management. So that 
decision, I’ll — you know — that’s been a very, very good decision. 
And they are — they’re smart. They have money minds. They are good, specifically, at 
investment management. But they’re absolutely first-class human beings. And they really fit at 
Berkshire. So, that was — 
Charlie gets credit for Todd. He met Charlie first. And I’ll claim credit for Ted. And I think we 
both feel very good about the decisions. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think the shareholders are very lucky to have them because they 
both think like shareholders. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Totally. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: After all, it came up that way. And that is not the normal way headquarters 
employees think. It’s a pretense that everybody takes on, but the reality is different. 
And these people really, deeply think like shareholders. And they’re young, and smart, and 
constructive. So we’re all very lucky to have them around. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Their mindset is a hundred percent, “What can I do for Berkshire,” 
not, “What can Berkshire do for me?” And, believe me, you can spot that over time with 
people. 
And on top of that, you know, they’re very talented. 
But, you know, it’s hard to find people young, ambitious, very smart, that don’t put themselves 
first. And I would — every experience we’ve had, they did not put themselves first. They put 
Berkshire first. 
And believe me, I can spot it when people are extreme in one direction or another. Maybe I’m 
not so good around the middle, but you’ve got — 
You couldn’t have two better people in those positions. 
But — and you say, “Well, why don’t you give them another 30 billion each or something?” I 
don’t think that would improve their lives or their performance. 
They may be handling more as they go along, but the truth is, I’ve got more assigned to me 
than I can handle at the present time, as proven by the fact that we’ve got this 90 billion-plus 
around. 
I think there are reasonable prospects for using it. But if you told me I had to put it to work 
today, I would not like the prospect. 
Charlie, anything? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I certainly agree with that. It’s a lot harder now than it was at times in 
the past. 
5. Private transactions not needed now for Class A shares 
WARREN BUFFETT: Gregg? 
GREGG WARREN: Warren, plans for your ownership stake, which is heavily concentrated in 
Class A shares, are fairly well known, with the bulk of the stock going to the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation and four different family charities over time. 
Your annual pledges to these different charities involve the conversion of Class A shares, which 
hold significantly greater voting rights than the Class B shares. 
As such, the voting control held by your estate will diminish over time, with a whole layer of 
super-voting shares being eliminated in the process. 
While the voting influence of Class B shareholders are expected to increase over time, it will not 
be large enough to have a big influence on Berkshire’s affairs. 
With that in mind, and recognizing the great importance on having Berkshire buy back and 
retire Class A shares in the long run, I was just wondering if the firm has compiled a pipeline of 
potential future sellers from the ranks of the company’s existing shareholders. 
Given the limited amount of liquidity for the shares, privately negotiated transactions with 
these sellers, like the one you negotiated in December of 2012, would end up being in the best 
interest of both parties. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, again, it would depend on the price of Berkshire. 
So, in terms of what I give away annually, you know, it’s — the last two years, it’s been about 
2.8 billion per year. That can be — you know that’s one day’s trading in Apple. 
I mean, the amount I’m giving away is, in terms of Berkshire’s market cap, I mean, you know, 
you’re down to seven-tenths of one percent of the market cap. So, it’s not a big market factor, 
and it really wouldn’t be that illiquid. 
So, I know a few big holders that, you know, might have 8- or 10,000 shares of A. But the 
market can handle it now. 
When we bought that block of — I think it was 12,000 shares of A, I mean, we bought it 
because we thought it increased the intrinsic business value of Berkshire by a significant 
amount. And we paid the seller what the market was at the time. 
And, you know, we’re open to that up to 120 percent. And who knows? If it came along at a 
time and it was 124 percent or something, it was a very large block and the directors decided 
that that was OK, it still was a significant discount, we might very well buy it. 
But in terms of the orderly flow of the market or anything like that, there will be no problems 
just as there haven’t been, you know, when I’ve given away — I do it every July — when I’ve 
given away the last two years. 
Some of the foundations may keep it for a while. But they have to spend what I give them. And 
they may build up a position in B for, you know, a fairly significant dollar amount. But they’re 
going to sell it. 
And it is true that for a period after I die, there’ll be a lot of votes still in the estate and later in a 
trust. 
But, you know, that will get reduced over time. I see no problem with our capitalization over 
time. 
You know, I like the idea of a fair number of votes being concentrated with people that believe 
in the culture strongly and, you know, would be thinking about whether they’d get a 20 percent 
jump in the stock if somebody came along with some particular plan. 
But, eventually, that’s going to get diminished. It continues to get diminished. And I think, in 
terms of — you know, there’s a very good market in Berkshire shares. 
And if we can buy them at a discount from intrinsic business value and somebody offers some 
sum — a big piece — and it may be at a hundred — stock may be selling at 122 percent, 124 
percent, you know, I would pick up the phone and call the directors and see if they didn’t want 
to make a change. 
And we did it once before. And if it made sense, I’m sure they’d say yes. And if it didn’t make 
sense, I’m sure they’d say no. So, I don’t think we have any problem in terms of blocks of stock 
or anything. 
I don’t think people that own it have a problem selling it. And I don’t think we have a problem 
in terms of evaluating the desirability of repurchasing it. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add. 
6. Deciding whether to exercise Bank of America warrant 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 1. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. My name is Erin Byer. And I was born and raised in Pasadena, 
California, and I currently live in New York City. 
It’s been a dream of mine to come here today. I’ve been a proud BH shareholder for almost 20 
years. 
I asked my dad for stock for Christmas when I was 15. And I kept thinking at the opportunity to 
ask you a question today that I should make it one that would change my life. 
Well, that question is, do you know any eligible bachelors living in the New York City area? 
(Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, you certainly have the approach toward life that Charlie and I would. 
(Laughs) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: But the question that might make my Monday, back in the office: back in 
2011, you purchased Bank of America preferred stock with a warrant. You had the opportunity, 
at a later date, to exercise and convert those into common shares. 
When you’re looking at evaluating that decision to exercise that position, which would increase 
all of our Berkshire holdings — or the value of the Berkshire holdings — what are you going to 
consider when you’re looking at that? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it’s almost — well, if the price of the stock is above seven dollars a 
share, which seems quite likely, whether we were going to keep it or not, it would still make 
sense for us to exercise the warrant shortly before it expired, because it would be a valuable 
warrant, but it’s only a valuable warrant if it’s converted — or if exercised — and exchanged 
into common. And that warrant does expire. 
So, as I put in the annual report, our income from the investment would increase if the Bank of 
America ever got to where it was paying 11 cents quarterly. 
We get 300 million off the — a year — off the preferred. And for us to use the preferred as 
payment in the exercise of the warrant, we would need to — we would want to feel we were 
getting more than 300 million a year by — and that would take 11 cents quarterly. 
They may or may not get to where they pay that amount before the warrant expires in 1921 — 
or 2021. 
If we — if it does get to there, we’ll exercise the warrant. And then, instead of owning the five 
billion of preferred and the warrant, we’ll have 700-plus million shares of common. 
Then that becomes a separate decision. Do we want to keep the 700 million shares of 
common? 
I — if it were to happen today, I would definitely want to keep the stock. Now, who knows what 
other alternatives may be available in 2021 or — 
But as of today, if our warrant were expiring tomorrow, we would use the preferred to buy 700 
million-plus shares of common. And we would keep the common. 
If they get to 11 cents quarterly dividend, we’ll convert it. And we’ll very likely keep the 
common. 
And if we get to 2021, if the common’s above seven dollars, which I would certainly anticipate, 
we will exercise. 
So that’s all I can tell you on that. But I certainly wish you success on your other objective. 
(Laughter) 
And I think, probably, the fellow will be using very good judgment, too. 
OK. Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think it’s a very wise thing for a woman that owns Berkshire stock 
and is a good looking woman to put her picture up like that. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: It does give me a thought, though. We might actually start selling ads in the 
annual report. And — (Laughter) 
OK. That — incidentally, that BofA purchase, it literally was true that I was sitting in the bathtub 
when I got the idea of checking with the BofA, whether they’d be interested in that preferred. 
But I’ve spent a lot of time in the bathtub since, and nothing’s come to me. So — (Laughter) 
Clearly, I either need a new bathtub or we got to get in a different kind of market. 
7. Defending 3G’s job cuts 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: This is a question from George Benaroya. And it adds a layer to the discussion 
about 3G a little bit ago. 
He says, “I am a very happy, long-term shareholder. But this is a concern I have regarding 
Berkshire Hathaway’s Kraft Heinz investment. 
“This investment has done well in economic terms. The carrying value is 15 billion, and the 
market value was 28 billion in 2016. 
“But the DNA of 3G is quite different from ours. We do not make money by buying companies 
and firing people. 3G fired 2,500 employees at Kraft Heinz. That is what private equity firms do, 
but we are not a private equity firm. 
“Our values have worked for us for over four — 50 years. There is a risk that as 3G continues to 
deviate from our principles, they will, eventually, harm both our value and our values. How do 
we prevent that from happening?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s interesting. I mentioned earlier that it was very gradual. But it 
would’ve been, probably, a better decision. We fired 2,000 people over time — and some 
retired and left and all of that — but at the textile operation [Berkshire Hathaway]. You know, it 
didn’t work. 
And at Hochschild Kohn, the successor — we fortunately sold it to somebody else — but 
eventually, they closed up the department stores because department stores, at least that 
particular one and a good many, actually, including our competitors in Baltimore, could not 
make it work. 
Walmart came along with something — and, now, Amazon’s coming along with something — 
that changed the way people thought they knew. You — 
We mentioned our poultry with CTB, which is a lot of different farm equipment. 
The farm equipment, often, that CTB develops, the idea is that it’s more productive than what 
already is out there, which means fewer people are employed on farms. 
We had 80 percent of the American public — population, working population — working on 
farms a couple of hundred years ago. 
And if nobody had come up with things to make it more productive — farming — we’d have 80 
percent of people working on farms now to feed our populace. And it means that we’d be living 
in a far, far more primitive way. 
So there — you know — if you look at the auto industry, it gets more productive. If you look at 
any industry, they’re trying to get more productive. Walmart was more productive than 
department stores, and — 
That will continue in America. And it better continue or we won’t live in — or our kids won’t live 
any better than we do. 
Our kids will live better than we do, because America does get more productive as it goes 
along. And people do come up with better ways of doing things. The — 
When Kraft Heinz finds that they can do whatever amount of business — $27 billion worth of 
business or something — and they can do it with fewer people, they’re doing what American 
business has done for a couple hundred years and why we live so well. But they do it very fast. 
They’re more than fair, in terms of severance pay and all of that sort of thing. But they don’t 
want to have two people doing the job that one can do. 
And I, frankly, don’t like going through that, having faced that. 
I faced that down at Dempster in Beatrice, Nebraska. And it really needed change. But the 
change is painful for a lot of people. And I just would rather spend my days not doing that sort 
of thing, having had one or two experiences. 
But I think that it’s absolutely essential to America that we become more productive because 
that is the only way we have more consumption per capita, is to have more productivity per 
capita. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I — you’re absolutely right. We don’t want to go back to subsistence 
farming. I had a week of that when I was young on a western Nebraska farm. And I hated it. 
(Laughter) 
And I don’t miss the elevator operators who used to sit there all day in the elevator, run the 
little crank, you know. 
So, on the other hand, it — as you say it’s terribly unpleasant for the people that have to go 
through it and why would we want to get into a — the business of doing that over and over 
ourselves? 
We did it in the past when we had to, when the businesses were dying. 
I don’t see any moral fault in 3G at all, but I do see that there’s some political reaction that 
doesn’t do anybody any good. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Milton Friedman, I think it was, used to talk about the time — probably 
apocryphal — he would talk about the huge construction project in some communist country. 
And they had thousands and thousands and thousands of workers out there with shovels 
digging away on this major project. 
And, then, they had a few of these big, earth-moving machines behind — which were idle — 
and which could’ve done the work in one-twentieth of the time of the workers. 
So the economists suggested to the local party worker or whoever it was that, you know, why 
in the world didn’t they use these machines to get the job done in one-tenth or one-twentieth 
the time instead of having all these workers out there with shovels? 
And the guy replied, “Well, yeah. But that would put the workers out of work.” And Friedman 
said, “Well, then, why don’t you give them spoons to do it instead,” you know? (Laughter) 
8. Berkshire’s $20B cash cushion is an “absolute minimum” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonathan? 
JONATHAN BRANDT: I understand that Berkshire is much more liquid than is ideal right now 
with a 113 billion of consolidated cash and bonds versus policyholder float of 1-0 — 105 billion. 
But I have trouble calculating how much incremental buying power Berkshire has at any point 
in time. 
You’ve talked about having a minimum of 20 billion in cash on a consolidated basis. 
But for regulatory, risk control, or liquidity purposes, is there some minimum amount of float 
beyond the 20 billion that has to be in cash bonds or, say, preferred stocks? 
Or can all but 20 billion be put into either common stocks or invested into wholly-owned 
businesses if you found attractive opportunities? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
JONATHAN BRANDT: What does the balance sheet look like if you were fully invested? And 
where does additional debt fit into the equation, if at all? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. The — I wouldn’t conflate the cash and the bonds. I mean, when we 
talk about 20 billion in cash, we can own no bond beyond that. Twenty billion would be the 
absolute minimum. As a practical matter, I never — 
Since I’ve set 20 billion as a minimum, I’m not going to operate with 21 billion any more than 
I’m going to see a highway, a truck sign that says maximum load 30,000 pounds or something 
and, then, drive 29,800 across it. So, we won’t come that close. 
But the answer is that, A, we could use — we’re not inclined to use debt. Obviously, if we found 
something that really lit the — lit our fire — we might use some more debt, although that’d be 
a — it’s unlikely under today’s circumstances. But we can — 
Twenty billion’s an absolutely minimum. You can say that because I say 20 billion’s an absolute 
minimum, it probably wouldn’t be below 24 or 25. 
And we could do a very large deal if we thought it was sufficiently attractive. I mean, we have 
not put our foot to the floor on anything for really a very long time. But if we saw something 
really attractive — 
We spent 16 billion back when we were much smaller in a period of two or three weeks — 
probably three weeks maybe — in the fall of 2008. And we never got to a point where it was 
any problem for me sleeping at night. And now, we, obviously, have a lot more money to put 
out. 
So, if a good — Charlie, at what point, if I called you, would you say, “I think that’s a little bit big 
for us today?” 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I would say about $150 billion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, in that case, I’ll call you. (Laughter) 
Don’t — I’m a little more conservative on that than, actually, Charlie. But we both would do a 
very, very big deal if we — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We don’t have to agree perfectly. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It’d have to be — 
But, if we find a really big deal that makes compelling sense — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Now, you’re talking. 
WARREN BUFFETT: — we’re going to do it. (Laughter) 
9. Very unlikely Jorge Paulo Lemann would succeed Buffett as CEO 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 2. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger. 
My name is Felipe Kioni (PH). I’m 19 years old from Brazil. 
And your partnership with Jorge Paulo Lemann and his associates at 3G has been very 
successful, taking into account great outcome of transactions such as the Kraft Heinz merger. 
Even though you and Jorge Paulo have different investment methods, would you and Charlie 
consider him to be your — a member of your board, or even your successor? 
WARREN BUFFETT: I don’t think that will happen, but I — but then, I think it would complicate 
things, in terms of the board membership. 
But we love the idea of being their partner. And I don’t think — I think there’s a good chance 
that we will do more, and perhaps even bigger, things together. 
But the — we’re probably unlikely to be doing much change in the board, certainly in the next 
few years. 
And there will be a successor, and the successor could very well be while I’m alive. 
But that will be — there’s a very high probability that will be from somebody that’s been in our 
company for some time. I mean, the world could change in very strange ways, you know. But 
that’s a very, very high probability. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: All I can say is that my back hurts when I come to these functions because I 
want to indicate to the — my fellow shareholders — that they probably got seven more good 
years to get out of Warren. (Laughter and applause) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie’s inspiring me. I got to tell you that. 
But we’ve been very, very lucky in life. And so far, our luck seems to be holding. 
10. Online competition hasn’t yet affected Berkshire retailers 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Becky? 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Drew Estes in Atlanta, Georgia. 
And he asks, “Is Fruit of the Loom experiencing difficulties related to the distribution channel 
shift towards online and the troubles in the brick and mortar retail world? If so, do you believe 
the difficulties are short term in nature?” 
And, then, Drew goes on to add, “I’m hoping millennials haven’t bucked the underwear trend, 
too.” (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, he may know more about that than I do. (Laughter) 
The answer is essentially no, so far. But anybody that doesn’t think that online isn’t changing 
retail in a big way, and that anybody who thinks they’re totally insulated from it is correct — 
I mean, the world is changing big time. And like I say, at Fruit of the Loom, I don’t — it really 
hasn’t changed. And at our furniture operation, which is setting a record so far again this year 
for the shareholder’s weekend. You know, I mentioned it in the report, but I think we did $45 
million in one week. 
And our furniture operations — it’s hard to see any effect from online, outside of our own 
online operations. It had really good same-store gains. 
You can take, you know, whether it’s the Nebraska Furniture Mart, but RC Willey, whether it’s 
in Sacramento, or Reno, or Boise, or Salt Lake City, or Jordan’s, which, in Boston, has done very 
well on a same-store basis. 
So, we don’t really see it, but there were a lot of things we didn’t see 10 years ago that then 
materialized. 
One thing you may find interesting is that the Furniture Mart here in Omaha, which is an 
extraordinary operation — the online has grown very substantially. 
And I may be wrong on this, but I think it’s getting up to — I’d like to check this with the 
Blumkins before I say it, but I think it’s getting pretty close to 10 percent or so of volume. But 
it’s a very significant percentage of those people still go and pick the product up at the 
Furniture Mart. 
So apparently, they — it’s the time spent entering the store or maybe at check-out lines or 
whatever it may be. I’m surprised that it gets to be that percentage. 
But the one thing about it is we keep looking at the figures and trying to figure out what they’re 
telling us. 
So far, I would not say that it’s affected Fruit of the Loom in a significant manner. I would not 
say it’s affected the furniture operation in a significant manner. But I have no illusions that 10 
years is going to look — from now — is going to look anything like today. 
If you think about it, you know, if you go back a hundred years to the great department stores, 
what did they offer? They offered incredible selection. 
You know, if you had a big department store in Omaha, you had the thousand bridal dresses. 
And if you lived in a small town around, the local guy had two or something of the sort. 
So the department store was the big, exciting experience of variety and decent prices and 
convenient transportation, because people took the street cars to get there. 
And, then, along came the shopping center. And they took what was vertical before. And they 
made it horizontal. And they changed it into multiple ownerships. 
But they still kept incredible variety, and assortments, and convenience of going to one place, 
and accessible transportation because, now, the car was the method. And now you go to — 
and, you know, and then, we went for the discount stores and all of that. 
But now you’ve got the internet. And you’ve got the ultimate, in terms of assortments. And 
you’ve got people that are coming in at low prices. And the transportation is taken care of 
entirely, so the evolution that has taken place — 
The department store is online now, basically, except much expanded in assortment, much 
more convenient, and lower prices. 
So the world has evolved, and it’s going to keep evolving. But the speed has increased 
dramatically. 
And what’ll happen with — the brands are going to be tested in a variety of ways that — and 
they have to make decisions as to whether they try to do an online themselves, or work 
through an Amazon, or whether they try to hang onto the old methods of distribution while 
embracing new ones. 
There’s a lot of questions in retail and in branding that are very interesting to watch. And you’ll 
get some surprises in the next 10 years, I can promise you that. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s — it would be certainly — be unpleasant if we were in the department 
store business. Just think of what we avoided, Warren. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we got very lucky, actually, because we were in the department store 
business, and our business was so lousy that we recognized it. If it had been a little bit better, 
we would’ve hung on. 
And we owe a tremendous gratitude to Sandy Gottesman, our director who’s here in the front 
row, because he got us out of the business when Charlie and I, and Sandy, were partners in 
that. 
And something we paid six dollars a share for, I think it’s worth about $100,000 a share now, 
because we got out of the business. 
And if it had been a somewhat better business, you know, it might be worth 10 or $12 a share 
now. So, sometimes you get lucky. 
We don’t miss it either, do we, Charlie? Hochschild Kohn. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. We don’t miss it. 
11. Book value a “whole lot less” relevant to Berkshire 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jay. 
JAY GELB: This question is on Berkshire’s intrinsic value. A substantial portion of the company’s 
value is driven by operating businesses rather than the performance of the securities portfolio. 
Also, the values of previously acquired businesses are not marked up to their economic value, 
including GEICO, MidAmerican, and Burlington Northern. 
Based on these factors, is book value per share still a relevant metric for valuing Berkshire? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it’s got some relevance, but it’s got a whole lot less relevance than it 
used to. And that’s why — I don’t want to drop the book value per share factor, but the market 
value tends to have more significance as the decades roll along. 
It’s a starting point. And clearly, our securities aren’t worth more than we’re carrying for — 
carrying them for — at that time. And, on the other hand, we’ve got the kind of businesses 
you’ve mentioned. 
But we’ve got some small businesses that are worth 10 times or so, you know, what would — 
could carry it for. We’ve also got some clunkers, too. 
But I think the best method, of course, is just to calculate intrinsic business value. But it can’t be 
precise. 
We know — we think the probability’s exceptionally high that 120 percent understates it. 
Although, if it was all in securities, you know, 120 percent would be too high. 
But as the businesses have evolved, as we built in unrecognized value at the operating 
businesses — unrecognized for accounting purposes — I think it still has some use as being kind 
of the base figure we use. 
If it were a private company and 10 of us here owned it, instead we’d just sit down annually 
and calculate the businesses one by one and use that as a base value. 
But that gets pretty subjective when you’ve got as many as we do. And so, I think the easiest 
thing is to use the standards we’re using now, recognizing the limitations in them. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think the equities in the insurance company offsetting shareholders 
equity in the company are really not worth the full market value because they’re locked away in 
a high-tax system. 
And so I, basically, like it when our marketable securities go down and our own businesses go 
up. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we’re working to that end. We’ve been working that way for 30 years 
now or something like that. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We’ve done a pretty good job, too. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We have a lot of — we’ve replaced a lot of marketable securities with 
unmarketable securities that are worth a lot more. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. And it’s actually a more enjoyable way to operate, too, beyond that, 
but — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. We know a lot of people we wouldn’t otherwise — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — be with. Good people. 
12. I don’t know tech, but I know consumer behavior 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 3. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Michael Monahan (PH). And I’m from Long Island, New York. 
I don’t know if this question qualifies as investment advice. So I have a short, different question 
if you don’t want answer this one. (Laughter) 
Unlike the last shareholder from zone 3, this will not be a stump speech, nor a protest. 
One of your most well-known pieces of investment advice is to buy what you know. 
Additionally, you said earlier, one of the main criteria for buying is if you could ever understand 
the business. 
Ever since I came to my first meeting in 2011, you were not known for being a tech guy. You 
have said smart phones are too smart for you, you don’t have a computer at your desk, and 
you’ve only tweeted nine times in the last four years. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: It was either that or going to a monastery. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Despite this, you’ve recently been investing, looking, and talking more 
about tech companies. 
My question to you and also to Charlie to comment is, what you turned you from the Oracle of 
Omaha to the Tech Maven of Omaha? 
WARREN BUFFETT: (Laughs) Well, I don’t think I would — I don’t think I’ve talked that much 
about tech companies. 
But the truth is, we made a large investment in IB — I made a large investment in IBM, and — 
which has not turned out that well. We haven’t lost money. But in terms of the bull market 
we’ve been in, it’s been a significant laggard. 
And, then, fairly recently, we took a large position in Apple, which I do regard as more a 
consumer goods company, in terms of certain economic characteristics. Although, that — 
You know, it has a huge tech component in terms of what that product can do, or what other 
people might come along to do, to leapfrog it in some way. 
But I’ve — I think I’ll end up being — no guarantees — but I think I’ll end up being 1- for-2 
instead of 0- for-2. But we’ll find out. 
Charlie? 
I make no pretense whatsoever of being on the intellectual level of some 15-year-old that’s got 
an interest in tech. I think I may know — have some insights into consumer behavior. 
I, certainly, can get a lot of information on consumer behavior and, then try to draw inferences 
about what that means about what consumer behavior is likely to be in the future. But we will 
find with — 
The one — the other thing I’ll guarantee is I’ll make some mistakes on marketable securities, 
and I’ve made them in other areas than tech. So it — you’ll not bat a thousand, you know, no 
matter what industries you stick — you try to stick by. 
I know insurance pretty well. But I think we probably lost money on an insurance stock, 
perhaps, you know, once or twice over the years. So it — you don’t bat a thousand. 
But I have gained no real knowledge about tech in the last — well, since I was born, actually. 
(Laughter) 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think it’s a very good sign that you bought the Apple. It shows either one 
of two things. Either it is you’ve gone crazy or you’re learning. (Laughter) 
I prefer the learning explanation. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, so do I, actually. (Laughter) 
13. Artificial intelligence impact is hard to predict 
WARREN BUFFETT: Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Hi, Warren. This one’s a fun one. Thomas Kimay (PH) is here. He’s a 27-
year-old shareholder from Kentfield, California. 
And I should preface this question by saying that he was here 17 years ago at 10 years old, 
asked you a question from the audience asking you if the internet might hurt some of 
Berkshire’s investments. 
At the time, you said you wanted to see how things would play out. He’s now updated the 
question. (Buffett laughs) 
“What do you think about the implications of artificial intelligence on Berkshire’s businesses, 
beyond autonomous driving and GEICO, which you’ve talked about already? In your 
conversations with Bill Gates, have you thought through which other businesses will be most 
impacted? 
“And do you think Berkshire’s current businesses will have a significantly — will have 
significantly more or less employees a decade from now as a function of artificial intelligence?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I — 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: I mixed a couple questions together. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I certainly have no special insights on artificial intelligence, but I will 
bet a lot of things happen in that field in the next couple of decades, and probably a shorter 
timeframe. 
They should lead, I would certainly think — but again, I don’t bring much to this party. But I 
would certainly think they would result in significantly less employment in certain areas. But 
that’s good for society. 
And it may not be good for a given business, but let’s take it to the extreme. Let’s assume one 
person could push a button and, essentially, through various machines and robotics, all kinds of 
things, turn out all of the output we have in this country. 
So, everybody’s — there’s just as much output as we have. It’s all being done by, you know, 
instead of 150-some million people being employed, one person. 
You know, is the world better off or not? Well, certainly we’d work a lot less hours a week — of 
work per week and so on. 
I mean, it would be a good thing, but it would require enormous transformation in how people 
relate to each other, what they expect of government, you know, all kinds of things. And, of 
course, as a practical matter, more than one person would keep working. 
But pushing the idea that way is one of the — you’d certainly think that’s one of the 
consequences of making great progress in artificial intelligence. 
And that’s enormously prosocial, eventually. It’s enormously disruptive in other ways. And it 
can have huge problems, in terms of a democracy and how it reacts to that. 
It’s similar to the problem we have in trade where trade is beneficial to society, but the people 
that see the benefits day by day of a — of trade — don’t see a price at Walmart on socks or 
whatever they’re importing, that says, you know, “you’re buying — you’re paying X, but you 
would pay X-plus-so-many-cents if you bought this domestically.” 
So they’re getting these small benefits and invisible benefits. And the guy that gets hurt by it, 
who’s the roadkill of free trade, feels it very specifically. And that translates into politics. 
And so, you can — it gets very uncertain as to how the world would adjust, in my view, to great 
increases in productivity. 
And without knowing a thing about it, I would think that artificial intelligence would have that 
hugely beneficial social effect, but a very unpredictable political effect if it came in fast, which I 
think it could. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, you’re painting a very funny world where everybody’s engaged in 
trade. And the trade is, I give you golf lessons and you dye my hair. And that would be a world 
kind of like the royal family of Kuwait or something. 
And I don’t think it would be good for America to have everything produced by one person and 
the rest of us just engaged in leisure. 
WARREN BUFFETT: How about if we just got twice as productive? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: What? 
WARREN BUFFETT: How about if we got twice as productive in a short period of time, so that 75 
million people could do what 150 million people are doing now? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think you’d be amazed how quickly people would react to that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: In what way? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Favorably. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That’s what happened during the period when there — I’m sure everybody 
remembers with such affection — back in the Eisenhower years, five percent a year or 
something — people loved it. 
Nobody complained that they were getting air conditioning and they didn’t have it before. 
Nobody wanted to go back to stinking, sweating nights in the South and — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, if you cut everybody’s hours in half, it’s one thing. But if you fire half 
the people and the other people keep working, I just think it gets very unpredictable. I mean, I 
think we saw some of that in this election because I think that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, we’ve adjusted to an enormous amount of it. It just came along a few 
percent per year. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, and the question, then, is — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Don’t think you have to worry — I don’t think you have to worry about 
coming out at 25 percent a year. You know, I think you have to worry about it — you’re going to 
get less than two percent a year. That’s what’s worrisome. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’ll move on. But it will be, you know, it’s an absolutely fascinating 
subject to see what happens with this. But it’s very, very hard to predict. 
If — in some way, you know, we’ve got 36,000 people, say, employed at GEICO, you know. 
And if you could do the same — perform all the same functions, virtually all the same functions 
even, and do it with five- or 10,000 people, and it came on quickly, and the same thing was 
happening in a great many other areas, you know, I don’t think we’ve ever experienced 
anything quite like that. 
And maybe we won’t experience anything like it in the future. I don’t know that much about AI, 
but — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think you have to worry about that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s because I’m 86. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s not going to come that quickly. 
14. We have a “huge appetite” for both wind and solar projects 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Gregg. 
GREGG WARREN: Warren, during the past five years, Berkshire Energy’s investments in solar 
and wind generation have been about equal, with around 4.7 billion dedicated to capital 
projects in each segment. 
Based on the company’s end-of-year capital spending forecast for 2017 through 2019, 
investments in wind generation were expected to be more than seven times greater than 
investments in solar generation the next three years, with just over $4.5 billion going into wind 
generation. 
Just wondering how much of that future spending is tied to PacifiCorp’s recently announced 
$3.5 billion expansion plan, which is heavily weighted towards improving and expanding the 
subsidiary’s existing wind fleet, and whether the economics for wind are that much better than 
solar given that MidAmerican has also been spending heavily on wind investments? 
Or is this disparity between the two segments being driven more by genuine capacity needs, 
which would imply that you have much more solar capacity than you need? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It is — we don’t look at it as having more solar capacity than we need 
or anything like — 
It’s really a question of what comes along. I mean, and these — the projects, they’re internally 
generated, they’re externally offered to us, and we’ve got a big appetite for wind or solar. We 
have seen — you know — just based on those figures, we’ve seen more wind lately. 
But we have no bias toward either one. I mean, if we saw five billion of attractive solar projects 
we could do and didn’t happen to see any wind during that period, it wouldn’t slow us down 
from doing the five billion or vice versa. 
So we are — we have an appetite, a huge appetite, for projects in either area. We’re 
particularly well situated, as I think I’ve explained or talked about in the past, because we pay 
lots of taxes. 
And therefore, solar and wind projects all involve a tax aspect to them. And we can handle 
those much better than many other — certainly, electric utilities. 
Most electric utilities really, A, don’t have that much money left over after dividends and these 
— frequently, the taxes aren’t that significant. 
At Berkshire, we pay lots of taxes, and we’ve got lots of money. So it’s really just a question of 
doing the math on the deals as they come along. 
We’ve been very fortunate in Iowa, in finding lots of projects that made sense. And as a result, 
we’ve had a — we’ve got a much lower price for electricity than our main competitor in the 
state. We’ve got a lower price than in any states that touch us. 
We’ve told the people of Iowa we won’t — they won’t have a price increase for many, many, 
many years — guaranteed that. So this worked out extremely well. 
But if somebody walks in with a solar project tomorrow and it takes a billion dollars or it takes 
three billion dollars, we’re ready to do it. There’s no specific — 
And the more, the better. There’s no specific preference between the two. Obviously, it 
depends where you are in the country. 
I mean, Iowa’s terrific for wind. And, obviously, California’s terrific for sun. And there are 
geographical advantages to one or the other. But from our standpoint, we can do them 
anyplace. And we will do them anyplace. 
15. I “underestimated the brilliance” of Jeff Bezos at Amazon 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 4. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Joey (PH). And I’m an MBA candidate at Wharton. Thank 
you for having us. 
Amazon has been hugely disruptive, due to the brilliance of Jeff Bezos, whom Charlie earlier 
called the business mind of our generation. 
What is your current outlook and — on Amazon? And why hasn’t Berkshire bought in? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, because I was too dumb to realize what was going to happen — 
(laughs) — even though I admired Jeff. I’ve admired him for a long, long time and watched what 
he was doing. 
But I did not think that he could succeed on the scale he has. And I certainly didn’t — I didn’t 
even think about the possibility of doing anything with Amazon Web Services or the cloud. 
So if you’d asked me the chances that, while he was building up the retail operation, that he 
would also be doing something that was disrupting the tech industry, you know, that would’ve 
been a very, very long shot for me. And I’ve underestimated — I’ve really underestimated the 
brilliance of the execution. 
I mean, it’s one thing to dream about doing this stuff online, but it takes a lot of ability. And, 
you know, you can read his 1997 annual report. And he laid out a roadmap. And he’s done it, 
and done it in spades. 
And if you haven’t seen his interview on Charlie Rose three or four months ago — 
CharlieRose.com — go to it and listen to it because you’ll learn a lot. At least, I did. So, I just 
plain — 
It always looked expensive. And I really never thought that he would be where he is today. I 
thought he would do — I thought he was really brilliant. But I did not think he would be where 
he is today when I looked at it three, five, eight, 12 years ago — whenever it may have been. 
Charlie, how did you miss it? (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It was easy. (Buffett laughs) 
What was done there was very difficult, and it was not at all obvious that it was all going to 
work as well as it did. 
I don’t feel any regret about missing out on the achievements of Amazon. But other things were 
easier. And I think we screwed up a little. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. We won’t pursue that line. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I meant Google. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we missed a lot of things. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We missed a lot of things. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And we’ll keep doing it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) And we’ll have a two — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Luckily, we don’t miss everything, Warren. That’s our secret. We don’t miss 
them all. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We better move on, I think. (Applause) 
He may start getting specific. 
16. “If I died tonight, I think the stock would go up tomorrow.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Carol? 
CAROL LOOMIS: The creator of this question, Jim Keifer (PH) of Atlanta, has even higher 
expectations for Warren’s longevity than Charlie does. 
“Mr. Buffett, we all hope you win the record as mankind’s oldest living person. But at some 
point, you and/or Charlie will go, and Berkshire stock may then come under selling pressure. 
“My question is, if Berkshire stock falls to a price where share repurchase is attractive, can we 
count on the board and top management to repurchase shares? 
“I ask this question both because of past comments you have made about not wanting to take 
advantage of shareholders and because some of the passages in the owner’s manual lead me to 
believe this might be an instance when the board does not choose to repurchase shares. 
“Can you clarify what course of action we might expect about repurchases in the circumstances 
I have outlined?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, as far as I’m concerned, they’re not taking advantage of 
shareholders if they buy the stock when it’s undervalued. That’s the only way they should buy 
it. And they should — 
But in doing so — there were a few cases back when Charlie and I were much younger — where 
there were very aggressive repurchases — or the equivalent of repurchases — by people. And 
the repurchases, incidentally, made a lot more sense than they do now. 
But they were done by people who either — for various techniques — tried to depress the 
shares. And if you’re trying to encourage your partners to sell out at a depressed price by 
various techniques, including misinformation — but there’s other techniques — you know, I 
think that’s reprehensible. But our board wouldn’t be doing that. 
I’ll take exception to the first part of it, but I’ll still answer the second. I think the stock is more 
likely to go up. If I died tonight, I think the stock would go up tomorrow. And there’d be 
speculation about break ups and all that sort of thing. 
So, it would be a good Wall Street story that, you know, this guy that’s obstructed breaking up 
something that — where some of the parts might sell for more than the whole. 
They wouldn’t necessarily be — probably be worth less than the whole — but might sell for — 
temporarily — for more than the whole. And it would happen. So I would bet in that direction. 
But if, for some reason, it went down to a level that’s attractive, I don’t think the board is doing 
anything in the least that’s reprehensible by buying in the stock at that point. No false 
information, no nothing. It should — 
And their buying means that the seller would get a somewhat better price — if there are a lot 
of sellers — they’d get a mildly better price than if they weren’t buying. And the continuing 
stockholders would benefit. 
So I think that — I think it’s obvious what they would do. And I would think it’s obvious that it’s 
pro-shareholder to do it. And I think they would engage in pro-shareholder acts as far as the 
eye can see. I mean, we’ve got that sort of board. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think you or I might suddenly get very stupid very quickly, but I don’t 
think our board is going to have that problem. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I want to think about that one. (Laughter) 
17. We try to explain material accounting issues to shareholders 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Jonathan. 
JONATHAN BRANDT: Warren, in the past, you’ve enjoyed discussing accounting for options 
grants. 
So I’m curious, what’s your view of the new accounting standard which mandates that 
companies report lower tax provisions, based on so-called excess tax benefits enjoyed when 
share-based compensation ends up being more profitable for the grantees than when it’s 
initially modeled? 
These so-called benefits — excess benefits — used to go through the shareholder’s equity line 
on the balance sheet. Which accounting method makes more sense to you, the old method or 
the new? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jonny, I think you know a lot more about it than I do. So, if I were asked to 
answer that question, I’d probably call you up and say, “What should I say?” (Laughter) 
It’s not a factor that will enter into Berkshire, so I really have not — I mean, I’ve heard just a 
little bit about that accounting standard. But I really don’t know anything about it. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s not a big deal, Warren. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I know that. (Laughter) 
Yeah. We — there are few things in accounting we really disagree with and whether they might 
be material to somebody trying to evaluate Berkshire. And, you know, that primarily gets into 
amortization of intangibles. 
It will certainly — it certainly gets into realized capital gains and that sort of thing. And we will 
go to great lengths to try to tell our partners, basically, not all of whom, you know, are 
accounting experts or anything. 
And we will try to make clear to them, at least, what our view is. You know, the same way as if I 
had a family business and I was talking to my sisters or something about it. 
But unless it’s material, we’ll probably stay away from trying to opine on any new accounting 
standards. If it’s material to Berkshire, we’ll go to great lengths to, at least, give our view. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I certainly agree with that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: That is, that what he’s talking about is not very material to Berkshire. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. It isn’t. And it really won’t be. You know, and — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Some of these others are, though, and we will bring those up as they come 
up. The — yeah. 
We are reporting 400-and-some million dollars less in our earnings than if Precision Castparts 
had remained a public company. 
Well, is Precision Castparts — I mean, are the earnings less real? Is the cash less real? Is 
anything — because it’s moved, the ownership? I don’t think so. 
And I want to convey that belief to shareholders. And they can debate whether it’s right or 
wrong. But I think it’s a mistake not to comment if — and just assume that the owners 
understand that because it, you know, it’s a fairly arcane point. And so, we point it out. But we 
also point out if we think depreciation is inadequate. 
As for valuation purposes, the depreciation is inadequate at a very capital-intensive business 
like BNSF, which we, I must say, still love anyway. 
Charlie, any more? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. 
18. “Valuation … is not reducible to any formula” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Section 5. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you, and good afternoon. I’m Adam Bergman with Sterling Capital 
in Virginia Beach, Virginia. 
Earlier today, Mr. Munger commented on the valuation of China versus the U.S. market. 
My question for you is, are market cap to GDP and cyclically adjusted P/E still valid ways to 
consider market valuation? And how do those influence Berkshire’s investment decisions? 
Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, I think — well, I expect that I guess Charlie’s overall valued in China. 
I would say that both of the standards you mention are not paramount at all in our valuation of 
securities. It’s harder — 
People are always looking for a formula. And there is an ultimate formula, but the trouble is 
you don’t know what to stick in for the variables. But the — 
And, you know, that’s the value of anything, being the present value of all the cash it’s ever 
going to distribute. But the P/E ratios — I mean, every number has some degree of meaning, 
means more sometimes than others. 
Valuation of a business is — it’s not reducible to any formula where you can actually put in the 
variables perfectly. 
And both of the things that you mentioned get — themselves, get bandied around a lot. 
It’s not that they’re unimportant. But sometimes they’re — they can be very important. 
Sometimes they can be almost totally unimportant. It’s just not quite as simple as having one or 
two formulas and, then, saying the market is undervalued or overvalued or a company is 
undervalued or overvalued. 
The most important thing is future interest rates. And, you know, and people frequently plug in 
the current interest rate saying that’s the best they can do. After all, it does reflect a market’s 
judgment. 
And, you know, the 30-year bond should tell you what people who are willing to put out money 
for 30 years and have no risk of dollar gain or dollar loss at the end of the 30-year period. 
But what better figure can you come up with? I’m not sure I can come up with a better figure. 
But that doesn’t mean I want use the current figure, either. So, I would say that — 
I think Charlie’s answer will be that he does not come up with China versus the U.S. market 
based on what you’ve mentioned as yardsticks. But, no, Charlie, you tell them. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: All I meant was that — I said before that the first rule of fishing is to fish 
where the fish are — is that a good fisherman can find more fish in China if your — if fish is the 
stock market. That’s all I meant. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. One — I’m going to go back to one — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It’s a happier hunting ground. 
19. Lessons from running a “lousy business” 
WARREN BUFFETT: This doesn’t really directly relate. Just going — I want to go back to one 
question that was mentioned earlier. 
I really think if you want to be a good evaluator of businesses — an investor — you really ought 
to figure out a way, without too much personal damage, to run a lousy business for a while. 
I think you learn a whole lot more about business by actually struggling with a terrible business 
for a couple of years than you run by — than you learn by getting into a very good one where 
the business itself is so good that you can’t mess it up. 
I don’t know what — I don’t know whether Charlie has a view on that or not. But it’s certainly 
— it’s — it was a big part of our learning experience. And I think a bigger part, in a sense, than 
running — being involved — with good businesses was actually being involved in some bad 
businesses and just seeing — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: How awful it was. 
WARREN BUFFETT: — how awful it is, and how little you can do about it, and how IQ does not 
solve the problem, and a whole bunch of things. 
It’s a useful experience. But I wouldn’t advise too much of it. Would you think so, Charlie? Or — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It was very useful to us. There’s nothing like personal, painful experience if 
you want to learn. And we certainly had our share of it. 
20. Weapons of mass destruction pose biggest risk to Berkshire 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Becky. 
BECKY QUICK: This question comes from Tom Spanfelner (PH). And he’d like to be called Tom 
Span from Pennsylvania. 
He says, “In life, business, and investing, strategies often work until they don’t work. Other than 
a massive insurance loss, any thoughts on what could cause the Berkshire enterprise to not 
work?” 
WARREN BUFFETT: I think the only — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Good question. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, if there were some change, if we got some infection — outside 
agent of some sort that changed the culture in some major way, an invasion of different 
thought. 
But as a practical matter, I don’t think anything — you know, and it’s the things you can’t think 
of — but I can’t think of anything that can harm Berkshire in a material, permanent way except 
weapons of mass destruction. But I don’t regard that as a low probability. 
It would take a recession, a depression, a panic, you know, hurricanes, earthquakes. They all 
would have some effect. And in some cases, it might even be that we would do better because 
of them. 
But if there were a successful — as measured by the aggressor — nuclear, chemical, biological, 
or cyber-attack on the United States — and there are plenty of people that would like to pull 
that off or organizations and maybe even a few countries — it could disrupt society to such an 
extent that it would harm us. 
But I think — with the variety of earning streams, with the asset positions, with the general 
philosophy at play — the culture — I think that we would be close to the last one affected. 
But if somebody figures out how to kill millions of Americans and totally disrupt society, then, 
you know, then all bets are off. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I agree. It would take something really extreme. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And just take the question like — British Petroleum took a huge loss with 
one oil well blowing. 
And Berkshire has all these independent subsidiaries. And they really are independent. And the 
parent company is not (inaudible) if there’s one horrible accident somewhere. 
We would tend to pay, of course, maybe more than our legal liability, but we are not — one 
accident in one subsidiary that caused a big lot of damage, we’re better protected than most 
companies. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: In every way, Berkshire is structured to handle stresses. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It’s the kind of thing we think about all the time. We’ve thought about it 
ever since we started. But I really don’t know any company that can take more general 
adversity or even some specific adversities. 
But if you get into the “what could happen with weapons of mass destruction?” that is 
something we can’t predict about. But if that ever happens, there’ll be more to worry about 
than the price of Berkshire. 
21. Buffett confident about growth for property-casualty business 
WARREN BUFFETT: Jay? 
JAY GELB: Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance generated $1.3 billion of premium volume in 
2016. This business is on the smaller end of commercial property-casualty insurers in terms of 
scale, although its volume did grow 40 percent last year. 
In a highly competitive commercial P&C environment, what gives you confidence that Berkshire 
Hathaway Specialty is destined to become one of the world’s leading commercial P&C insurers, 
as you said in this year’s annual letter? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I think it will be. And I think how fast it grows depends very — it does 
depend very much on the market. 
I mean, we’re, you know, we are not interested in trying to be a price-cutter in a market where 
the prices already aren’t that attractive. 
But we have built the scale, worldwide. And a lot of this has just been added in, you know, 
recent months and just over the past year. We have — 
We will grow a lot. But if the market should turn hard for any reason, we would grow a lot 
faster. But we are destined, at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty, to be one of the leading PC firms 
in the world, just as we were destined to have — when Ajit [Jain] came in, even though we had 
nothing — we were destined to become a very important reinsurer throughout the world and, 
in certain ways, almost the only reinsurer for certain types of risks in the world. 
And we’ve got the people. We’ve got the capital. We’ve got the reputation. There is no stronger 
company in the insurance world — and there won’t be — than the Berkshire Hathaway 
insurers. We’ve got the talent there. 
So it will grow. It may grow slowly some years. It may have big jumps just like the reinsurance 
operation did many years ago. But it’s a very important addition to Berkshire that brought that 
on. I wish — just wish we could’ve started a little earlier. 
But we had to have to right people. And they came to us. And, as you say, we wrote whatever it 
was, a billion-three or a billion-four last year, and we’ll write more this year. But we won’t write 
as much as if we were in a hard market. 
22. “My God, we’re still learning” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 6? 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon. My name Sally Burns. I’m from Australia. But I currently 
reside in Austin, Texas. 
My question, Mr. Buffett, I have heard that Mr. Munger says your greatest talent is that you’re 
a learning machine, that you never stop updating your views. 
What are the most interesting things you’ve learned over the last few years? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it is fun to learn. I would say Charlie is much more of a learning 
machine than I am. I’m a specialized one, and he’s a much — he does as well as I do in my 
specialty. And, then, he’s got a much more general absorption rate than I have about what’s 
going on in the world. 
But, you know, it’s a world that gets more fascinating all the time. And a lot of fun can occur 
when you learn you were wrong on something. It — you know, that’s when you really learn that 
the old ideas really weren’t so correct. And you have to adapt to new ones. And that, of course, 
is difficult. 
I don’t know that I would pick out — well, I think, actually, what’s going on, you know, in 
America is terribly, terribly interesting, you know, and politically, all kinds of things. But just the 
way the world’s unfolding, it’s moving fast. 
I do enjoy trying, you know, to figure out not only what’s going to happen, but what’s even 
happening now. But I don’t think I’ve got any special insights that would be useful to you. But 
maybe Charlie does. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think buying the Apple stock is a good sign in Warren. (Laughter) 
And he did run around Omaha and ask if he could take his grandchildren’s tablets away. (Buffett 
laughs) 
And he did market research. 
And I do think we keep learning. And more important, we keep — we don’t unlearn the old 
tricks. And that is really important. 
You look at the people who try and solve their problems by printing money and lying and so 
forth. 
Take Puerto Rico. Who would’ve guessed that a territory of the United States would be in 
bankruptcy? Well, I would’ve predicted it because they behave like idiots. (Laughter) And so — 
WARREN BUFFETT: And we did not buy any Puerto Rico bonds. (Laughs) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: No. And if you go to Europe — you go to Europe, you should look at the 
government bond portfolios we’re required to hold in Europe. There’s not only no Greek bonds, 
they’re the bonds of nobody but Germany. 
Everywhere you look in Berkshire, somebody is being sensible. And that is a great pleasure. And 
if you combine that with being very opportunistic so that when something comes along like a 
panic, why, it’s a nice — it’s like playing with two hands instead of one on a game that requires 
two hands. 
It helps to have a fair-sized repertoire. 
And, Warren, we’ve learned so damn much. There are all kinds of things we’ve done over the 
last 10 years we would not have done 20 years ago. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. That’s true, although if you take — it’s interesting. I’ve mentioned this 
before. But one of the best books on investment was written, I think, in 1958. I think I read it 
around 1960, by Phil Fisher, called Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits. And he told — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: All the countries went — companies went to hell eventually. 
WARREN BUFFETT: But it talked about the importance, I mean, or the usefulness of, what do 
you call, the “scuttlebutt method.” And, you know, that was something I didn’t learn from 
[Benjamin] Graham. 
But every now and then, it’s turned out to be very useful. Now, it doesn’t solve everything. And, 
I mean, there’s a whole lot of more — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I saw you do it with American Express in the Salad Oil scandal. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You’re still doing at Apple, you know, decades later. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It — in certain cases, you actually can learn a lot just by asking a lot of 
questions. And I give Phil Fisher credit. That book goes back a lot of years. 
But as Charlie said, some of the companies he picked as winners forever did sort of peter out on 
him. 
But the basic idea, that you can learn a lot of things just by asking in some cases — I mean, I 
used to — 
I mean, if I got interested in the coal industry — just say to pick one out of the air — you know, 
when I was much younger, more energetic, if I went and talked to the heads of 10 coal 
companies and I asked each one of them — way later into the conversation, after they got 
feeling very — they felt like talking. 
And I would just, you know, I’d just say, “If you had to go away for 10 years on a desert island 
and you had to put all of your family’s money into one of your competitors, which one would it 
be and why?” 
And then, you know, and then I’d ask them if they had to sell short one of their competitors for 
10 years, all their family money, why? 
And they — everybody loves talking about their competitors. And if you do that with 10 
different companies, you’ll probably have a better fix on the economics of the coal industry 
than any one of those individuals has. 
I mean, the — it — there’s ways of getting at things. And sometimes they’re useful. Sometimes, 
they’re not. But sometimes, they can be very useful. 
And, you know, the idea of just learning more all the time about — 
I’m more specialized in that by far than Charlie. I mean, he wants to learn about everything. 
And I just want to learn about something that’ll help Berkshire. 
But — (laughs) — it’s a very, you know, it’s a very useful attitude toward — have toward — the 
world. 
And, of course, I don’t know who said it. But somebody said the problem is not in getting the 
new ideas but shedding the old ones. And there’s a lot of truth to that. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: We would never have bought ISCAR if it had come along 10 years earlier. 
We would never have bought Precision Castparts if it had come along 10 years earlier. We are 
learning. And, my God, we’re still learning. 
23. “We’re getting too much medicine” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Andrew? 
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN: Hi. Warren, this is my final question. 
In 2012, you were quoted as saying, “I think the health care problem in — is the number one 
problem of America and of American business. We have not dealt with that yet.” 
Do you believe that the current administration’s plan to repeal and replace ACA will ultimately 
benefit the economy and Berkshire or not? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I’ll answer — I’ll give you two answers here, the first one being 
that if you go back to 1960 or thereabouts, corporate taxes were about four percent of GDP. I 
mean, they bounced around some. 
And, now, they’re about two percent of GDP. And at that time, health care was five percent of 
GDP. And now, it’s about 17 percent of GDP. 
So when American business talks about taxes strangling our competitiveness or that sort of 
thing, they’re talking about something that, as a percentage of GDP, has gone down from four 
to two while medical costs, which are borne to a great extent by business, have gone from five 
to 17 percent. 
So medical costs are the tapeworm of economic — American economic competitiveness, I 
mean, if you’re really talking about it. 
And that — and business knows that. They don’t feel they can do much about it, but it is not — 
The tax system is not crippling Berkshire competitiveness around the world or anything of the 
sort. Our health costs have gone up incredibly and will go up a lot more. And if you look at the 
rest of the world, there were a half a dozen countries that were around our five percent if you 
go back to the early years. 
And while we’re at 17, now, they’re at 10 or 11. So they have gained a five or six point 
advantage — the world — even in these countries with fairly high medical costs. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And that’s with socialized medicine. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. So it’s a huge — whatever I said then goes and is accentuated now. 
And that isn’t a problem — 
I mean, that is a problem this society is having trouble with and is going to have more trouble 
with, and — regardless of which party’s in power or anything of the sort. It almost transcends 
that. 
In terms of the new act that was passed a couple days ago versus the Obama administration 
act, it’s a very interesting thing. 
All I can tell you is the net effect of that act on one person is that my taxes — my federal 
income taxes — would’ve gone down 17 percent last year, if the act — if what was proposed 
went into effect. 
So, it is a huge tax cut for guys like me. And you’ll have to figure out the effects of the rest of 
the act. 
But the one thing I can tell you is if it goes through the White House — put in, I mean, it — 
anybody with $250,000 a year of adjusted gross income and a lot of investment income is going 
to have a huge tax cut. And when there’s a tax cut, either the deficit goes up or they get the 
taxes from somebody else. 
So, as it stands now, it is — that is the one predictable effect, if it should pass, as it — and it — 
the Senate will do something different and hold a conference. And who knows what happens? 
But that is in the law that was passed a couple days ago. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I certainly agree with you about the medical care. What I don’t like 
about the medical care is that a lot of — we’re getting too much medicine. 
There’s too much chemotherapy on people that are all but dead, and all kinds of crazy things go 
on in Medicare and in other parts of the health system. 
And every — there are so many vested interests that it’s very hard to change. 
But I don’t think any rational person looking objectively from the outside of the American 
system of medical care — we all love all the new life-saving stuff, and the new chemotherapies, 
and the new drugs, and all that. 
But, my God, the system is crazy. And the cost is just going wild. And it does put our 
manufacturers at a big disadvantage with other people where the government is paying the 
medical bills. And so, I agree with Warren totally. 
WARREN BUFFETT: If you had to bet, 10 years from now, we’ll be higher or lower than 17 
percent of GDP? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, if present trends continue, it’ll get more and more. There are huge 
vested interests in having this thing continue the way it is. And they’re very vocal and active. 
And the rest of us are indifferent. So, naturally, we get a terrible result. 
And I would say that on this issue, both parties hate each other so much that neither one of 
them can think rationally. And I don’t think that helps, either. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It’s — (Applause) 
It is kind of interesting that, you know, with — the federal government spends — or raises, we’ll 
say — 3 1/2 trillion or something like that — I mean, the degree of concern everybody has 
about that — although that’s stayed fairly steady in the 18 percent or so of GDP plus or minus a 
couple points — but three trillion-plus is spent on health care. 
And everybody wants the best. And it’s perfectly understandable. But it’s a very, very — it’s a 
big number compared to the whole federal budget. I mean, there’s some overlap and all of 
that. But it’s — 
If you talk about world competitiveness of American industry, it’s the biggest single variable 
where we keep getting more and more out of whack with the rest of the world. 
And it’s very tough for political parties to attack it. Yet, it’s, you know, it — basically, it’s a 
political subject. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: A lot of it is deeply immoral. If you have a group of hospital people and 
doctors that are feasting like a bunch of jackals on the carcass of some dying person, it’s not a 
pretty sight. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Tell them about that group out — (applause) — in California that — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Oh yes. 
WARREN BUFFET: Perfect — this is — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: This is Redding. This is one of my favorite stories. There are a bunch of very 
ambitious cardiologist and heart surgeons in Redding. 
And they got the thought that, really, what a heart was was a “widowmaker.” So everybody — 
every patient that came in, they said, “You’ve got a widowmaker in your chest. And we know 
how to fix it.” And so they recommended heart surgery for everybody. 
And, of course, they developed a huge volume of heart surgery. And they got very wonderful 
results because nobody comes through heart surgery better than the man who doesn’t need it 
at all. (Laughter) 
And they made so much money that the hospital chain, which was Tenet, brought all its other 
hospitals — why can’t you be more like Redding? And this is a true story. And it went on and on 
and on. 
And finally, there was some beloved Catholic priest. And they said, “You’ve got a widowmaker 
in your chest.” And he didn’t believe them. And he blew the whistle. 
WARREN BUFFETT: He was a priest. You could see why he didn’t believe them. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: At any rate — well, when you get a routine, you just keep using it, you 
know. A heart is a widowmaker. It’s a widowmaker. 
Later, I met one of the doctors who threw these people out of the medical profession. And I 
said to him, “In the end, did they think they were doing anything wrong?” 
He said, “No, Charlie. They thought that what they were doing was good for people.” That is 
why it’s so hard to fix these things. The self — the delusion that comes into people as they 
make money and get more successful by doing God-awful things should never be 
underestimated. And it’s — there’s a lot — (Applause) 
A lot of that goes on. And you’re (inaudible) such gross craziness. And you thought little Wells 
Fargo looks like innocence. He only has a little trouble with his incentive system. 
But the heart surgery rate was 20 times normal or something. You’d think you’d notice if you’re 
running a hospital. And — but they did notice. They wanted the other hospitals to be more like 
it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: They had a terrific success ratio. 
24. Buffett expects Berkshire will own more utilities 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Gregg? (Laughs) 
GREGG WARREN: Thank you, Warren. 
As you look forward, in taking into consideration some of the headwinds faced in the U.S.-
based utilities, including weaker electricity demand growth as increasing energy efficiency 
impacts demand, distributed generation, which hits vertically integrated utilities doubly hard as 
they face both declining energy sales revenue and increased network cost to support reliable 
delivery and, third, higher interest rates, which would increase borrowing costs, what are the 
key attributes that Berkshire Energy would be looking for in future acquisition candidates? In — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Oh, excuse me. I’m sorry. 
GREGG WARREN: I’m sorry. In particular, are there advantages or disadvantages attached to, 
say, transmission assets relative to generation assets that would make you favor one over the 
other? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, generation assets, you can say, have inherently more risk 
because that — some of them are going to — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Be stranded. 
WARREN BUFFETT: — stranded, yeah, and obsoleted. Now the question is how they treat 
stranded and all of that sort of thing. 
We — on the other hand, more of the capital investment is in the generating assets. So that 
tends to be where a good bit of the capital base is. 
We like the utility business OK. I mean — electric — electricity demand is not increasing like it 
was, as you point out. They’re going to be stranded assets. They — 
If they’re stranded because of rank foolishness, you know, they will probably be less inclined — 
or the utility commissions — will be less inclined to let you figure that in your rate base as you 
go forward as opposed to things that are — where societal demands are just changing. 
But we still think the utility business is a very decent asset. The prices are very high, but that’s 
what happens in a low interest rate environment. I would be — 
I’d be surprised if 10 years from now, we don’t have significantly more money in not only wind 
and solar, but probably — we’ll probably own more utility systems than we own now. 
We’re a buyer of choice with many utility commissions. In fact, if we can put up the slide, 
there’s a slide which shows something about our pricing compared to other utilities. 
And Greg Abel and his group have done an extraordinary job. They’ve done it in safety. They’ve 
done it in reliability. They’ve done it in price. They’ve done it in renewables. It’s hard to imagine 
a better run operation than exists at MidAmerican Energy. 
And people want us — with that record — people want us to come to their state in many cases. 
But when prices get to the level they have, I mean, some utilities have sold at extraordinary 
prices. And we can’t pay them and have it make sense for Berkshire shareholders. 
But just because we can’t do it this year doesn’t mean it won’t happen next year or the year 
after. So I think we’ll get a chance. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And our utilities are not normal. The way Greg has run those things, they’re 
so much better run in every way than normal utilities. They’re better regarded by the paying 
customers. They’re better regarded by the regulators. They have better safety records. They 
charge — 
It’s just everything about it is way the hell better. And it’s a pleasure to be associated with 
people like that and to have assets of that quality. 
And it’s a lot safer. If somebody asked Berkshire to build a $50 billion nuclear plant, we 
wouldn’t do it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. And we have public power here in Nebraska. I mean, it’s been sort of 
the pride of Nebraska for many decades. It’s all — there are no privately-held utility systems, 
and totally public power. And, you know, those utilities have no requirements for earnings on 
equity. They have — 
They can borrow at tax-exempt rates. We have to borrow at taxable rates. And Nebraska — you 
know, the wind — it’s not that much different than Iowa. And we’re selling electricity across the 
river, a few miles from here, you know, at lower prices than exist in Nebraska. So it’s an 
extraordinary utility. 
And it was lucky when we got involved in it. I thank Walter Scott, our director, for introducing 
me to it almost 17 or 18 years ago or so. And — 
But I don’t think the utility business, as such — I mean, if I were putting together a portfolio of 
stocks, I don’t think there would be any utilities in that group now. But I love the fact we own 
Berkshire Hathaway Energy. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: But it’s different — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — radically different — 
WARREN BUFFETT: A lot — 
WARREN BUFFETT: — and better. 
WARREN BUFFETT: A lot better, actually. 
25. McLane: lots of revenue, but very thin profit margin 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 7. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name’s Grant Misterly from beautiful, historic Saint Augustine, Florida. 
I’ve been a fan of yours and of Berkshire since I was a kid, looking through the stock pages and 
seeing one crazy stock that traded for $10,000 a share. 
Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to convince my parents to buy it at that point. But now I’m a 
shareholder as an adult. And I’m here with my daughters, Mabel, who’s seven and Willa, who’s 
one year old, my wife. 
I voraciously read the letter every year. And I love the stories of — from the different 
companies, GEICO and See’s, BNSF, that kind of teach investing lessons. 
And this year, when I was looking through the accounting information in the back, I noticed that 
one company, McLane, contributes a lot of revenue, a large portion of Berkshire’s revenue and, 
to a lesser extent, earnings. But I don’t ever see much about it in the annual report. 
So I’m curious why we don’t hear more about that company? And are there any investing 
lessons like we get from See’s and GEICO that you can share about that company? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, McLane — the reason you see their figures separately is because the 
SEC has certain requirements that are based on sales. And McLane is a company that has an 
extraordinary amount of sales in relation to intrinsic value or to net income. 
It, basically, is a distributor of — well, it’s a huge customer, for example, of the food companies, 
the candy companies, the cigarette companies, it — go up and down the line of anything that 
goes into convenience stores. 
But we bought it from Walmart. And Walmart is our biggest customer. I can’t tell you the 
precise volume, but — well, if you get Walmart’s and Sam’s together, you know, you’re getting 
up to 20 percent-plus. 
But it’s nationwide. But in the end, it operates on about six percent gross margins and five 
percent operating expenses, so it has a one percent pre-tax margin. 
And, obviously, a one percent pre-tax margin only works in terms of return on capital if you 
turn your equity extraordinarily fast. And that’s what McLane does. Being a wholesaler, it’s 
moving things in, moving things out very fast, very efficiently. And it does this — 
It also has a few liquor distribution subsidiaries that have wider margins. But the basic McLane 
business is, you know, 45 billion-plus, makes one percent pre-tax on sales. 
But the return on capital is very decent. But it sort of has an outsized appearance simply 
because of this huge volume of sales that go through it. 
Grady Rosier, who runs it, is exceptional. He was there when we bought it from Walmart, 
whenever it was, a dozen years ago. 
And I’ve been there once. We’ve got thousands and thousands of trucks, big distribution 
centers all over the country. It is a major factor in moving goods at wholesale. 
I mean, if you’re a Mars Candy or something of the sort, I mean, we — we’re — we’ll be the 
biggest customer. 
But that pretty well describes the business. You know, it’s a business that earns good returns in 
relation to invested capital and in relation to our purchase price. 
But, you know, every tenth of a cent is important in the business. In collect — moving your 
receivables exceptionally fast, and consequently you have — you know, you have payables 
moving big time. 
So the sales are 30 times receivables and 30 times payables, you’ve got — and maybe, yeah, 35 
or so times inventory. I mean, this is a business that’s moving a lot of goods. But, in terms of its 
— 
It’s an important subsidiary but not remotely as important as would be indicated by the sales. 
It’s still very important making the kind of money that shows up in the 10-K. 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: You said it all. (Buffett laughs) 
WARREN BUFFETT: That was an interesting thing. Walmart wanted to sell it. They came to see 
us, and we made a deal. And the CFO came. We talked for a while. He went into the other room 
and called the CEO and came back and said, “You have a deal.” 
And Walmart has told me subsequently that they never had a deal that closed as fast as the one 
with Berkshire. I mean, they — you know, we said what we would pay. It was cash. And we got 
it done very promptly. And they were terrific on their side. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: By the way, that reputation for being quick and simple, and doing what we 
promised and so on, has helped at Berkshire time after time. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Yeah, we wouldn’t have made that deal without, essentially, having 
that reputation. But they knew — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, you bought the Northern Natural Gas Company in one weekend. And 
they wanted the Monday — that money on Monday. 
WARREN BUFFETT: They needed the money on Monday. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Before the lawyers could complete the legal papers, we managed to do it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, not only that, but I think it took some clearance by — in Washington. 
And, essentially, I think I wrote a letter and said that if they didn’t — if they decided after 
looking at it they didn’t want to clear it, we’d undo the deal. 
But these guys needed the money so bad, we were going to give them the money, essentially, 
based on the deal clearing. And there wasn’t any reason why it wouldn’t clear, but that was just 
a procedural problem. 
But most companies can’t do that. I mean, we can. We’ve got a flexibility that, really, in most 
large companies just plain doesn’t exist. There’s too many people have to sign off on it or 
something of the sort. 
So the Northern Natural deal would not have been made if we’d had to follow the normal 
timetable. It — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And it’s a lovely business to own. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Absolutely. 
26. Buffett wants to be remembered as a (very old) teacher 
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, we’re moving from one station to another between now and 3:30, so 
we now go to station 8. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning or good afternoon, Warren and Charlie, John — 
WARREN BUFFETT: Hi. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: — Norwood from West Des Moines, Iowa. You guys have iron bladders. 
(Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: We won’t tell you the secret to that. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Fine — (Laughter) 
I was wondering about a contraption under the — 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: — table there. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. You can come down and inspect. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right. (Laughter) 
Hey, I had a question for each. Warren, I was fortunate to ask you a question, I think, in 2011 
about legacy and what you wanted to be known for a hundred years from now. And I’m kind of 
curious to hear what Charlie would like to be known for. 
Warren, I’m 52. So I guess you started this — doing this — when I was born. And I’m kind of 
interested in a memory from your first annual meeting. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: My first memory when Warren got on this subject and they asked him what 
he wanted said at his funeral. 
He said, “I want them to all be saying ‘that’s the oldest looking corpse I ever saw.’” (Laughter) 
And — 
WARREN BUFFETT: That may be the smartest thing I ever said. (Laughter) 
Oh, it — well — with me, it —very simple. It — I really like teaching. 
So, basically, I’ve been doing it formally and, you could say, somewhat informally, all my life. 
And I certainly had the greatest teachers you can imagine. So, if somebody thought that I did a 
decent job at teaching, I’d feel very good about that. (Applause) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. To make the teaching endurable it has to have a bit of wise-assery in 
it. And that we’ve both been able to supply. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: And for those of you who are old-time basketball fans, have I mentioned 
that on Wilt Chamberlain’s tomb it was reputed that it was going to say, “At last, I sleep alone?” 
(Laughter) 
27. “Don’t wait till you’re 93” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Station 9. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon, Mr. Munger and Mr. Buffett. 
My name is Ji Wen Yue (PH). I come from China. It’s my first time to come to this meeting. And I 
think I’m very lucky to have a chance to ask question. 
WARREN BUFFETT: We’re glad to have you. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. Everyone has personal dreams. And at a different age, maybe 
dreams will come different to you. And what’s your dream now? 
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, we’ll let you go first. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I didn’t quite hear that. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, I — what’s your dream now? She says — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: My dream. Well — (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s skip the first one. (Laughter) 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Sometime when I’m especially wishful, I think, oh, to be 90 again. 
(Applause) 
And I got some advice for the young. If you got anything you really want to do, don’t wait till 
you’re 93. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No, do it. (Laughter) 
No, that’s the same thing I would tell students is, you can’t always find it the first time or the 
second time. But when you go out in the world, look for the job that you would take if you 
didn’t need a job. 
I mean, don’t postpone that sort of thing. Somebody — I think it was Kierkegaard, said that, you 
know, life must be evaluated backwards but it must be lived forwards. 
And you want to sort of — Charlie says all he wants to know is where he’ll die so he’ll never go 
there, you know. And so you — (Laughter) 
You do want to do a certain amount of reverse engineering in life. I mean, that’s not — that 
doesn’t mean you can do everything that way. 
But you really want to think about what will make you feel good, when you get older, about 
your life. 
And you, at least generally, want to keep going in that direction. And, you know, you need 
some luck in life. And you got to accept some bad things that are going to happen as you go 
along. 
But life has been awfully good to me and Charlie, so we have no complaints. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: What you don’t want to be is like the man, when they held his funeral, and 
the minister said, “Now, it’s the time for somebody to say something nice about the deceased.” 
And nobody came forward. And nobody came forward. 
He said, “Surely, somebody can say somebody — something nice — about the deceased.” And 
nobody came forward. 
And finally, one man came up. And he said, “Well,” he said, “His brother was worse.” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter) 
28. Buffett’s regret: “I wish I’d met Charlie earlier” 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. We’ll move to station 10 and see if we can improve on it. (Laughter) 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. My name is Andy Lijun Lin from Loyal Valley Innovation Capital from 
Shanghai. 
This is my sixth year from Shanghai to here. I have say — I have to say to you two, Warren and 
Charlie, you are highly respected and deeply loved by millions and millions, or even billions, 
globally. 
I have two questions today. First question, in your letters to shareholders you said you believe 
EBITDA is not a good parameter to value a business. Why it’s not? Can you elaborate on that? 
Second question, you both have very successful and happy lives with great respect. My 
question is to each of you. In retrospect, from a personal standpoint, do you have regrets in 
life? 
If there is one thing you could have done differently in your life, family, personal, or business, 
what is it? Thank you very much. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I don’t think you should expect us to answer that on personal. 
But in business, I would say I wish I’d met Charlie earlier. (Laughs) 
We’ve had a lot of fun ever since I was 29 and he was 35. But it would’ve been even more fun if 
we’d started many, many years earlier. We had a chance to. We worked in the same grocery 
store but not at the same time. 
29. Teaching the “delusion” of EBITDA is “horror squared” 
WARREN BUFFETT: In respect to EBITDA, depreciation is an expense. And it’s the worst kind of 
an expense. You know, we love to talk about float. And float is where we get the money first 
and we have the expense later. 
Depreciation is where you spend the money first, you know, and, then, record the expense 
later. And it’s reverse float. And it’s not a good thing. 
And to have that enter into a multiple — it’s much better to buy a business that has, everything 
else being equal — has no depreciation because it has, essentially, no investment and fixed 
assets that makes X, than it is to buy a company where there’s a lot of depreciation in getting to 
X. 
And I — actually, I may write a little bit more on that next year, just because it’s such a mass 
delusion. And, of course, it’s in the interests of Wall Street, enormously, to focus on something 
called EBITDA because it results in higher borrowing power, higher valuations, and all of that 
sort of thing. 
So it’s become very popular in the last 20 years, but I — it’s a very misleading statistic that can 
be used in very pernicious ways. 
Charlie, on either one of those subjects? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I think you’ve understated the horrors of the subject and the disgusting 
nature of the people that brought that term into the valuation of business. It was just — 
It would be like a leasing broker of real estate who’s got a thousand square-foot new suite to be 
leased, and he says it’s got 2,000 feet in it. That’s not honorable behavior. And that’s the way 
that term got into common usage. 
Nobody in his right mind would think that depreciation is not an expense. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. It — but it’s very much in the interest of Wall Street. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. That’s why — 
WARREN BUFFETT: You — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: — they did it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. 
CHARLIE MUNGER: It made the multiple seem lower. 
WARREN BUFFETT: And what’s amazing is the way it’s accepted, actually. 
But anyway, it just illustrates how people use language, you know, and sell concepts that work 
to their own use. 
And “2 and 20” has the same sort of thing. I mean, the number of people — the amount of 
money that’s overperformed after paying 2 and 20, compared to the expenses that have been 
incurred, I will assure you, makes for a terrible indictment of that particular arrangement. 
But as long as it can get sold, it will get sold. And — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: And, now, they use it in the business schools. Now, that is horror squared. 
I mean — (laughter) — it’s bad enough that a bunch of thieves start using a term. But when it 
gets so common that the business schools copy it, that is not a — that’s not a good result. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. (Applause) 
30. “Nobody should be roadkill in this sort of society” 
WARREN BUFFETT: Station 11. 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good afternoon. I’m Whitney Tilson, a shareholder from New York. 
My question is related to the ones asked earlier about job cuts. Perhaps, the only thing that 
makes American workers angrier than layoffs is to shut down an operation entirely and move 
the jobs overseas. 
Ask anyone in Ohio or Michigan, and they’ll tell you stories about companies that have been 
operating in those states for decades, benefitting from the educational system, infrastructure 
and so forth, things that were paid for by local taxpayers. 
But, then, some high-paid consultants came along and showed the company how it could 
reduce its costs by relocating production to Mexico or China. And poof, the good U.S. jobs 
disappeared. 
My observation is that most investors and those in corporate America today worship at the 
altar of maximizing shareholder value, which is code for doing whatever is necessary to boost 
the share price as high as possible. 
But in doing so, companies are taking actions that make millions of workers feel, at best, fearful 
and left behind and, at worst, deeply harmed by corporate America. 
It makes so many people so angry that I think it’s testing the post-World War II economic order, 
which is rooted in free trade, and even the strength of our democracy. I’d argue that it was 
decisive in our last election. 
So my question to you is, do you think that businesses should consider factors outside of pure 
economics when making these types of decisions? What obligations, if any, do they have to 
their employees and communities in which they operate? 
And lastly, if a Berkshire CEO came to you and asked for your approval to close a U.S. operation 
and relocate it overseas to save money, what questions would you ask beyond the economics 
of this decision? Thank you. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, the truth is that — (applause) — in certain cases, production 
that would otherwise — that had formerly been in the United States has definitely been 
supplanted by production that comes from other parts of the world. 
Originally — I was there when Fruit of the Loom was called Union Underwear and bought by 
Graham-Newman Corp in 1955, I believe. And it was probably all domestic then. And the truth 
is if it was all domestic now, it wouldn’t exist. 
We had the same thing happen with Dexter Shoe. And it was a wonderful company and skilled 
workers. And in the end, if we sold the shoes at a price that yielded what they cost us, they 
were not competitive with shoes from around the world. 
Trade, I would argue — both ways, export, import — massive trade should be — and is, actually 
— enormously beneficial both to the United States and the world. I mean, it will — it — greater 
productivity will benefit the world in a general way. 
But to be roadkill, to be the textile worker in New Bedford that was put out of a job eventually, 
to be the shoe worker in Dexter — at Dexter to be — was put out of work, you know, is — 
I mean, it would be no fun to go through life and say, “I’m doing this for the greater good and 
so that shoes or underwear will sell for five percent less,” or something, “and the American 
public will actually never know.” 
So what you need is two things, in my view. You’ve got an enormously prosperous country. 
You’ve got almost $60,000 of GDP per capita. It’s unbelievable — six times what it was when I 
was born, in real terms. 
So we’ve got the prosperity. And that prosperity is enhanced by trade. We were only exporting 
five percent of our GDP back in 1970, and that’s — I think it’s around 12 percent or something 
like that now. 
We’re doing what we do best. But we need an educator-in-chief, logically the president — I 
don’t mean this specific president. I mean any president who’s been around for decades — has 
to be able to explain to the American public the overall benefits of, essentially, free trade. 
And then, beyond that, we have to have policies that take care of the people that become the 
roadkill in the process. 
Because it doesn’t make any difference to me if — as far as I’m concerned, if my life is 
miserable because I’ve been put out of business by something that’s good for 320-some million 
people in some infinitesimal way, and it’s messed up my life when I’ve tried to live it in a proper 
way. 
So we have got the resources to take care of those people. The investors, I don’t worry about. I 
wrote about this a few years ago. 
The investors can diversify their investments in such a way that, overall, trade probably benefits 
them and they don’t get killed by a specific industry condition. 
But the worker, in many cases, can’t do that. You’re not going to retrain some 55-year-old 
worker in New Bedford who may not even speak English in our textile mill or something. I 
mean, they — 
If they get destroyed by something that’s good for society, they get destroyed, unless 
government puts in some policies that takes care of people like that. And we’ve got a rich 
society that can do that. And we got a society that will benefit by free trade. 
And I think we ought to try to hit both objectives of making sure that there is not roadkill and 
that, at the same time, we get — 320 million people — get the benefits of free trade. 
(Applause) 
Charlie? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I don’t quarrel with that. And we have unemployment insurance for 
that exact reason. 
But I’m afraid that a capitalist system is always going to hurt some people as it modifies and 
improves. There’s no way to avoid it. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, capitalism is brutal to capital if you’re in the wrong businesses. 
And, like I say, you can diversify those results. 
Capitalism is brutal to people that have the bad luck to be skilled or develop their skills for 
decades. 
But a rich — a very rich society can actually — if it’s beneficial to society overall, it can take care 
of those people. I mean, it just — you know, the new tax — 
The bill that was passed a couple days ago reduces my taxes, you know, by 17 percent. You 
know, and is that needed by the government or anything of the sort? 
CHARLIE MUNGER: I wouldn’t start spending the money. 
WARREN BUFFETT: No. And — (laughter) — but that was the will, I mean, of the — 
No, I agree. I don’t think — who knows what happens with the bill? But I’m just — to have that 
happen, and I don’t think — 
I think if you polled a thousand people in Omaha that were walking to a shopping center as to 
whether my tax bill had been cut by some very large sum because of what passed, I don’t think 
many people would have the faintest idea what happened, in terms of the coverage of it and all 
of that that took place. 
So I — we’ve got — we do have — it’s probably more like 57- or $58,000 of GDP per capita — 
family of four, $230,000. But nobody should be roadkill in this sort of society — 
CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, remember what Bismarck said: There are two things that nobody 
should have to watch. One is the making of the sausage. And the other is the making of 
legislation. (Laughter) 
WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I would say that somebody ought to watch. (Laughter) 
Anyway, we’ve hit the magic hour of 3:30. We’ll reconvene at 3:45 to do — have a formal 
shareholders meeting. 
And that may take a while. So, you’re welcome to stay and watch that. Or you’re welcome to 
shop. And I might even have a small preference of that. But go — do whatever you wish. OK. 
(Applause) 
31. Formal business meeting begins 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Let’s regroup. 
If you’ll all take your seats, we’ll begin the formal meeting. And I’ll work from a script in this. 
The meeting will now come to order. I’m Warren Buffett, chairman of the board of the directors 
of the company. I welcome you to this 2017 annual meeting of shareholders. 
This morning, I introduced the Berkshire Hathaway directors that are present. Also with us 
today are partners in the firm of Deloitte and Touche, our auditors. 
Sharon Heck is secretary of Berkshire Hathaway, and she will make a written record of the 
proceedings. 
Becki Amick has been appointed inspector of elections at this meeting, and she will certify to 
the count of votes cast in the election for directors and the motions to be voted upon at this 
meeting. 
The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott and Marc Hamburg. 
Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares outstanding —? 
VOICES: (Inaudible) 
WARREN BUFFETT: if you don’t mind, keep the lights on a little more so I can read this — 
outstanding, entitled to vote, and represented at the meeting? 
SHARON HECK: Yes. I do. As indicated in the proxy statement that accompanied the notice of 
this meeting that was sent to all shareholders of record on March 8th, 2017, the record date for 
this meeting, there were 770,994 shares of Class A Berkshire Hathaway common stock 
outstanding, with each share entitled to one vote on motions considered at the meeting, and 
1,310,304,247 shares of Class B Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each 
share entitled to 1/10,000th of one vote on motions considered at the meeting. 
Of that number, 538,915 Class A shares and 734,450,954 Class B shares are represented at this 
meeting by proxies returned through Friday afternoon, May 5th. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Sharon. That number represents a quorum and will therefore — 
we will therefore directly proceed with the meeting. 
The first item of business will be a reading of the minutes of the last meeting of shareholders. I 
recognize Mr. Walter Scott, who will place a motion before the meeting. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that the reading of the minutes of the last meeting of the shareholders 
be dispensed with and the minutes be approved. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Do I hear a second? 
RON OLSON: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: The motion has been moved and seconded. We will vote on the motion by 
voice vote. All those in favor say, “Aye.” 
VOICES: Aye. 
WARREN BUFFETT: I didn’t hear very many. But opposed? The motion is carried. 
32. Election of Berkshire directors 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is to elect directors. If a shareholder is present 
who did not send in a proxy or who wishes to withdraw a proxy previously sent in, you may 
vote in person on the election of directors and other matters to be considered at this meeting. 
Please identify yourselves to one of the meeting officials in the aisle so that you can receive a 
ballot. 
I recognize Mr. Walter Scott to place a motion before the meeting with respect to election of 
directors. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, 
Susan Decker, William Gates, David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Thomas Murphy, Ron 
Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as directors. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? 
RON OLSON: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It’s been moved and seconded that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, 
Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, Susan Decker, William Gates, David Gottesman, Charlotte 
Guyman, Thomas Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as 
directors. 
Are there any other nominations or any discussion? 
The nominations are ready to be acted upon. If there are any shareholders voting in person, 
they should now mark the ballots on the election of directors and deliver their ballot to one of 
the meeting officials in the aisles. 
Miss Amick, when you are ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast not less than 601,375 votes for each nominee. 
That number exceeds a majority of the number of the total votes of all Class A and Class B 
shares outstanding. The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes 
will be given to the secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Howard Buffett, 
Stephen Burke, Susan Decker, William Gates, David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Thomas 
Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl Witmer have been elected as directors. 
33. Advisory vote on Berkshire’s executive compensation 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item on the agenda is an advisory vote on the compensation of 
Berkshire Hathaway’s executive officers. I recognize Mr. Walter Scott to place a motion before 
the meeting at this time. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that the shareholders of the company approve, on an advisory basis, 
the compensation paid to the company’s named executive directors as disclosed pursuant to 
Item 402 of Regulation S-K, including the compensation discussion and analysis, and the 
accompanying compensation tables, and the related narrative discussion, in the company’s 
2017 annual meeting proxy statement. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? 
RON OLSON: I second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It has been moved and seconded that the shareholders of the company 
approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation paid to the company’s named executive 
officers. 
Miss Amick, when you are ready you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast not less than 608,765 votes to approve, on an 
advisory basis, the compensation paid to the company’s named executive officers. 
That number exceeds a majority of the number of the total votes of all Class A and Class B 
shares outstanding. The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes 
will be given to the secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. The motion to approve, on an advisory basis, the 
compensation paid to the company’s named executive officers has passed. 
34. Advisory vote on frequency of advisory compensation votes 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item on the agenda is an advisory vote on the frequency of a 
shareholder advisory vote on compensation of Berkshire Hathaway’s executive officers. I 
recognize Mr. Walter Scott to place a motion before the meeting on this item. 
WALTER SCOTT: I move that the shareholders of the company determine, on an advisory basis, 
the frequency, whether annual, biannual, or triannual, with which they shall have an advisory 
vote on the compensation paid to the company’s named executives as set forth in the 
company’s 2017 annual meeting proxy statement. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second? 
RON OLSON: Second the motion. 
WARREN BUFFETT: It has been moved and seconded that the shareholders of the company 
determine the frequency with which they shall have an advisory vote on compensation of 
named executive officers with the option being every one, two, or three years. 
Miss Amick, when you are ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast 131,268 votes for a frequency of every year, 
1,954 votes for a frequency of every two years, and 476,661 votes for a frequency of every 
three years of an advisory vote on the compensation paid to the company’s named executive 
officers. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. The shareholders of the company have determined, 
on an advisory basis, that they shall have an advisory vote on the compensation paid to the 
company’s named executive officers every three years. 
35. Shareholder motion to disclose political contributions 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is the motion put forth by Clean Yield Asset 
Management on behalf of shareholders, Tom Beers and Mary Durfee. The motion is set forth in 
the proxy statement. 
The motion requests that the company provide a report on its political contributions. The 
directors recommended that the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now recognize Eileen Durry (PH) — I hope I’m pronouncing that right — to present the 
motion. 
To allow all interested shareholders present their views, I ask to limit the — I ask to limit her 
remarks to five minutes. 
And the microzone — the microphone at zone 1 is available for those wishing to speak for or 
against the motion. Zone 1 is the only microphone station in operation. 
For the benefit of those present, I ask that each speaker for or against the motion, with the 
exception of the original proposer, limit themselves to two minutes and confine your remarks 
solely to the motion. 
And do we have, at station 1, the representative of Clean Yield Management? Or, wait. Sorry. 
Clean Yield Asset Management. 
EILEEN DURRY: Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, board of directors, and my fellow shareholders. 
My name is Eileen Durry. And I have been asked to read the following statement by the filers of 
this proposal, Tom Beers and Mary Durfee. 
Our proposal, number four on the proxy ballot, calls on Berkshire Hathaway to fully disclose the 
extent of its political spending. 
Why do we ask for this? Corporate political spending is a controversial activity that must be 
carefully managed and overseen at the most senior levels of management. 
Mismanagement or misjudgment around political contributions can bring reputation damage, 
political risks, and legal consequences. 
In recent years, at the urging of shareholders and other stakeholders, scores of companies have 
adopted stronger disclosure and better oversight of political contributions. 
Best practices in this area include full disclosure of direct and indirect political contributions, 
descriptions of policies and procedures to ensure full legal compliance, and a commitment to 
board oversight. 
But our company’s policies in this area are so nonexistent or hidden that they have earned it a 
score of zero for six years running on the leading rating system for corporate political disclosure 
and accountability, the CPA-Zicklin Index. 
In contrast, 56 percent of the S&P make public a detailed policy governing political 
expenditures from corporate funds. Peers such as GE, Travelers, Unum, CSX, and Norfolk 
Southern disclose political spending. 
In contrast, all we know about Berkshire’s political spending is contained in the two paragraph 
response to our proposal in this year’s proxy statement, which seeks to reassure us that 
Berkshire’s political spending is small, relative to its size. 
But management’s statement raises more questions than it answers. It says nothing, for 
example, about whether Berkshire gives to third party, like trade associations and 501(c)(4)s, 
which are leading sources of dark money contributions that are nearly impossible to trace. 
Since 2012, over $670 million in dark money was spent in the U.S. elections with no disclosure 
of who the underlying donors were. 
Fellow shareholders, as you know, our company is a large and complicated enterprise. 
Berkshire Hathaway ranks number four in the Fortune 500. 
At a time when the trend among large companies is to be more open about their political 
spending and their policies regarding dark money vehicles, it doesn’t behoove or benefit 
Berkshire Hathaway to be so secretive if it has nothing to hide. If you agree, please vote in favor 
of proposal number four. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. Are there other people that wish to speak on the motion? 
EILEEN DURRY: Not that I know of. 
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Thank you. 
And I will tell you that, to my knowledge, in 52 years, Berkshire Hathaway, at the parent 
company level, has not made a political contribution. I don’t — I, personally, disagree strongly 
with the Citizens United decision, which was a five-to-four vote. 
And I think that having unlimited contributions by wealthy individuals through super PACs and 
— or wealthy corporations — I do not think it’s a plus at all. And I think it’s a minus in our 
democracy. And I think that big money does — can often distort the political process. 
It’s a reality that any of our subsidiaries in heavily regulated industries are probably going to 
have to make some political contributions. Their competitors do it. 
And I tell our managers, basically, if they — I don’t want them making contributions on their 
own personal preferences in elections to be made from corporate funds. And I would regard 
that as a breach of trust with Berkshire. 
But I do recognize that if they’re in the railroad industry, or the electric utility industry, or 
whatever it may be, that there is a necessity, essentially, to make political contributions. And 
I’m sure they give money to people that I wouldn’t vote for. 
But that is a reality of doing business in certain businesses which have a significant political 
aspect to their activities. 
So, I (inaudible) and my heart is with you to some extent, in terms of I wish Citizens United had 
gone the other way. I don’t like the idea of great sums being spent. 
But I do not think we — I think it — personally, I think that it could be disadvantageous to 
actually list all of the political organizations to which people contribute when competitors 
don’t. And I think there’s expense involved in all three of the proposals that are coming up on 
this one. 
So I, personally, voted against the proposition. But I do hope, like you, that money plays a lesser 
part in politics — big money — in the future — and undisclosed money — than it does now. 
And I don’t think the odds are good that the Supreme Court is going to reverse Citizens United. 
So with that, I would say the motion is now ready to be acted upon. If there are any 
shareholders voting in person, they should now mark their ballot on the motion and deliver 
their ballot to one of the meeting officials in the aisles. 
Miss Amick, when you’re ready, you may give your report. 
BECKI AMICK: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to proxies that 
were received through last Friday afternoon cast 64,449 votes for the motion and 542,399 
votes against the motion. 
As the number of votes against the motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all 
Class A and Class B shares properly cast on the matter, as well as all votes outstanding, the 
motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Miss Amick. The proposal fails. 
36. Shareholder motion on methane emissions 
WARREN BUFFETT: The next item of business is put forth by Baldwin Brothers Inc. on behalf of 
shareholder Marcia Sage. The motion is set forth in the proxy statement. 
The motion requests that the company provide a report reviewing the company’s policies, 
actions, plans and reduction targets related to methane emissions from all operations. The 
directors have recommended that the shareholders vote against the proposal. 
I will now recognize Eileen Durry to present the motion. To allow all interested shareholders to 
present their views, I ask her to limit her remarks to five minutes. 
The microphone at zone 1 is available for those wishing to speak for or against the motion. 
Zone 1 is the only microphone station in operation. 
For the benefit of those present, I ask that each speaker for and against — or against the 
motion — limit themselves to two minutes — although, Miss Durry, that’s five minutes in your 
case — and to confine your remarks solely to the motion. 
EILEEN DURRY: Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, and fellow 
shareholders. 
My name is Eileen Durry. I am here to move Arjuna Capital and Baldwin Brothers’ proposal on 
behalf of Marcia Sage, a long-term investor in our company. 
Proposal five seeks to protect shareholder value by ensuring the transparent disclosure for 
information regarding methane emissions. 
The reason for this proposal are clearly in the interest of protecting long-term shareholder 
value. Leaked gas has a direct economic impact on our company as it is no longer available for 
sale, establishing a clear business case for reduction targets and control processes. 
In fact, leaked methane represented $30 billion of lost revenue in 2012, equivalent to three 
percent of gas produced globally. 
The National Resources Defense Council estimates that capturing currently wasted gas for sale 
could reduce methane pollution by roughly 80 percent. 
And while the climate benefit of replacing coal with natural gas has been widely publicized, that 
benefit is negated when leakage rates exceed 2.7 percent, as methane carries 84 times the 
global warming impact of CO2 over a 20-year period. 
Recent academic studies are particularly troubling as they have identified methane leakage far 
north of current EPA estimates. Additionally, gas storage presents outsized risks. 
